
 
  
   
  Traveling library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Traveling library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      A traveling library is a collection of books lent for stated periods by a central library to a branch library, club, or other organization or, in some instances, to an individual. The chief characteristics from which it derives its name are its temporary location in the place to which the collections of books is sent and the implication that any traveling library will or may be changed for another collection of books. A bookmobile is an example.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 United States 
           
        2 Description 
        3 For school libraries 
        4 For educational extension 
        5 For library culture 
        6 Other types of traveling libraries 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      History 
      The date of the first traveling library is uncertain. Among its forerunners can be noted the itinerant chapman and ballad seller, the religious colporteur, and the camp library of Napoleon I listed in Bourrienne's Mémoires. The traveling library can also be cited as a logical outgrowth of the "circulating schools" of Wales, promoted in 1730 by Griffith Jones, and the later similar extension schools of the General Assembly of the Kirk of Scotland in the Highlands and the Scottish islands. 
      The first really practicable traveling library plan seems to have been started by Samuel Brown in East Lothian, Scotland, in 1817, though it is stated that the principle had been used with some Scottish parish libraries as early as 1810. Brown procured 200 selected volumes "about two-thirds of which were of a moral and religious tendency, while the remainder comprised books of travel, agriculture, the mechanical arts and popular sciences." Four libraries of 50 volumes each were stationed in Aberlady, Saltoun, Tyninghame and Garvald. In 20 years these libraries had increased to 3,850 volumes, distributed through 47 villages. Jean Frédéric Oberlin is said to have founded itinerant libraries in his parish of Waldersbach in the Vosges Mountains at about the same time that the East Lothian libraries were established. Both of these early plans barely survived their founders. 
      A successful system of traveling libraries was begun by the public library of Melbourne in 1860. Oxford University in 1878 and Cambridge University soon after began to send out traveling libraries as an aid to their university extension courses.  
      United States 
      
       
        
        The cheapness and quickness of modern methods of communication has been like a growth of wings, so that a thousand things which were thought to belong like trees in one place may travel about like birds.  
        
       Melvil Dewey, 1901  
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          Box containing "Traveling Library No.1," created by the Vermont Free Public Library Commission, USA, 1901
         
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Library box set up in a shop, Wisconsin, USA, 1890s
        
       
       
      In the United States, the lyceum movement demonstrated the need of libraries to conserve the results of its work. "Itinerating libraries" and a county system of traveling libraries were proposed as early as 1831. In 1848, the American Seaman's Friend Society began to furnish libraries to American ships, afterward extending its work to naval hospitals and life-saving stations. The United States government has supplied similar libraries to lighthouses. These were exchanged frequently. The first general American traveling libraries supported by public funds were authorized by the New York State Legislature in 1892. The first library was sent out by the New York State Library, and created in part from Melvil Dewey, in February 1893. Beginning with 10 libraries of 100 volumes each the circulation for the first fiscal year was 2,400 volumes. This increased in 1918-19 to a total circulation of 43,958 volumes sent out in 1,099 different collections, with a total stock of 100,641 volumes. Michigan and Montana enacted traveling-library legislation in 1895 and Wisconsin and Iowa in 1896. There were also some commercial traveling libraries such as those provided by the H. Parmelee Library Company which was founded in Iowa in 1882. It developed a rotating "package" collection which it called the University of the Traveling Library. The company continued to market its rotating package library as a way of providing, "A Thoroughly Equipped and Permanent Library In every Town and Hamlet in America", after relocating to Chicago in 1898.  
      Description 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      A typical system in New York State provided seven different types of traveling libraries:  
      
       house libraries for the individual or the single family, preferably in rural homes 
       libraries for children 
       libraries for foreigners, in several foreign languages 
       libraries for general readers 
       libraries for public schools, to supplement the school libraries but not to provide supplementary readers or textbooks 
       libraries for small public libraries, to supplement local library collections where library funds are scanty 
       libraries for study clubs, granges, private schools, Sunday schools, churches, etc.
       
      The collections were of two types: fixed and open shelf. Fixed traveling libraries are lent as a unit and the borrower is allowed no substitutions for titles on the list. Open shelf traveling libraries are selected from the general collection of the extension department to meet, as far as possible, the specific desires of the organization or person borrowing the library. The fixed collection is more economical as it ensures the use of the whole collection; the open shelf collection is more flexible and, therefore, more satisfactory to most people. The tendency is toward the open shelf collection. 
      A variant of the traveling library is the bookmobile or mobile library, which delivers books along definite routes radiating from some central library. 
      The great advantages of the traveling library are economy, mobility, and adaptability. The collection is limited to books definitely chosen for some purpose. The obsolete and useless are eliminated. The frequent change of collections gives each group or community receiving the libraries access to the volumes in all the groups. Books on timely topics or those needed to meet changes in community taste can in this way be provided at a minimum cost. The traveling library can be put into the home, the store, or wherever people congregate. It is not limited to any one place. No permanent building or special assistant is needed to make it give fairly satisfactory service if intelligence in selection is shown by the library which issues it. The only records needed are the simplest types of lending records. 
      The traveling library is of special significance in four different directions:  
      
       in providing the rural population and special organisations with library facilities 
       in aiding the rural schools to keep their instruction abreast of the times 
       in promoting educational extension movements of all lands 
       in promoting the establishment and development of permanent libraries
       
      The factory and the machine shop, the social club, and the fraternal organization also find it much to their advantage to have immediately at hand a small, well-chosen collection of books changed often enough to prevent their becoming stale.  
      For school libraries 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The rapid and extensive changes in school curricula and the modern methods of teaching, most of which imply considerable use of material outside the textbook, make the school library more than ever an essential part of a school. The rural and small town schools, no less than the schools in the large cities, need fresh books in their libraries. In most cases the funds available for this purpose are inadequate. The traveling library sent by a library commission, a department of education, or other central agency can fill this need better and at less expense than the local school board. It can supply the books needed to supplement the standard books, the reference books, and the supplementary readers and textbooks which the school must have as a permanent part of its equipment. In many cases, the traveling library will show whether or not the desired book is really needed permanently.  
      For educational extension 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Practically every well-devised scheme of educational extension, whether lyceum movement, university extension, study club, correspondence course, Chautauqua movement or Sunday school, has recognized the need of a small library to conserve and amplify the results of the instruction. The traveling library has demonstrated its value in these cases. It has made it possible for the educational work to be varied in subject. It has enabled the ambitious student to go far beyond the limits of the lecture or the prescribed textbook. It has made true Thomas Carlyle's statement, "The true university of these days is a collection of books."  
      For library culture 
      Many pioneer settlers who migrated from the eastern states to Kansas lacked books. These settlers were missing the literary societies, lyceums, and libraries that Kansas lacked. Many people traveled miles to attend lyceums or listen to debates. Literary societies were viewed as just as essential as having a church. Women’s clubs began forming in a number of settlements. Women’s clubs filled the void for intimate friendships and provided educational opportunities. Women’s clubs in the east also worked to prevent disease, elevate ignorance, and fight poverty. Western women settlers thought one of their roles was to civilize or reform the new society they were forming in Kansas. In February 1897, activist and leader of a women’s club, Lucy Johnston helped develop a system of traveling libraries in Kansas after she heard about a traveling library in Ohio. Lucy Johnston stated, “…I thought if we could have a few books, donated by the women who had plenty, we might in some way get them carried out to the women who had none.” A fellow leader stated it was a brilliant idea and Johnston was appointed the head of the traveling library project in Kansas. The Kansas traveling libraries goals were to re-create the literary culture that was left behind in the eastern states. It was revealed in letters that at the beginning of the traveling libraries program, many women stated that they yearned for books. This limited access to books was also experienced further west. By 1904, clubwomen were credited for the establishment of traveling libraries in at least 31 states.  
      Another pioneer of traveling libraries was Lutie Stearns. Stearns is credited with starting more than fifteen hundred traveling library stations, as well as helping to organize thirty county cooperative library systems and one hundred fifty permanent library buildings in Wisconsin from 1895-1914. She often hand delivered the traveling libraries to both farm and industrial communities herself, traveling by stagecoach, train and even sleigh. Stearns was inspired to create a traveling library system in Wisconsin after attending Melvil Dewey’s American Library Associate presentation about the traveling library system he founded in New York.  She believed that everyone should be able to have access to books regardless of age, gender or economic status. Her traveling libraries were sent to rural areas for up to six months at a time before they were replaced with new collections. Most of the collections were meant for general public use, however there were special collections made specifically for places such as orphanages, lumber camps and sanatoriums in addition to foreign language collections. Each traveling library was made up of thirty, fifty or one hundred volumes that were kept in an enclosed bookcase with a record book of loans, copies of the library rules, blank borrowing sheets and everything needed to setup the library wherever it was needed. Many of the traveling libraries were kept in farmhouses, railway stations, small stores and post offices. The information collected from the libraries helped to inform Stearns how to improve and grow the traveling library collections for the future.   
      Other types of traveling libraries 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Countess Batowska's traveling library; Myślewicki Palace, Royal Baths Museum; 2nd half of the 18th century
        
       
       
      Another type of traveling library is a box or small bookcase containing small books for the use of a traveler. Believed to be one of the first versions of the traveling library is the 17th-century Jacobean traveling library. The beautifully crafted wooden case created to house a miniature book collection was most likely commissioned by lawyer, and member of Parliament, William Hakewell in 1617 as New Year's gift for a friend. According to the University of Leeds, Shaped in the form of a large book, the case houses 50 smaller books, creating a portable, traveling library. 
      There are further examples in the collections of Leeds University Library, the British Library (Sir Julius Caesar's travelling library), the Huntington Library and the Toledo Museum of Art, Ohio.  
      See also 
      
       Digital library 
       Pack Horse Library Project
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Walter, Frank K. (1920). "Traveling Libraries"&nbsp;. In Rines, George Edwin (ed.). Encyclopedia Americana.  
         ^ 
           Melvil Dewey (1901). "Field and Future of Traveling Libraries". Home Education Department. Bulletin. State University of New York (40).  
         ^ Wisconsin. Division for Library Services. (1897). Free traveling libraries in Wisconsin: the story of their growth, purposes, and development; with accounts of a few kindred movements. Madison: Democrat Printing Company.  
         ^ https://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/001760338/Cite  
         ^ 
           "America". www.libraryhistorybuff.com. Retrieved 2018-08-22.  
         ^ ;Weaver, Diana (2013). “Letters to Lucy Johnston: Addressing the Need for Literature on the Kansas Prairies.” University of Texas Press  
         ^ Stotts, S. (2006). Patron Saint of Libraries? Historic Wisconsin Librarian Made Waves. Children &amp; Libraries: The Journal of the Association for Library Service to Children, 4(1), 30–31.  
         ^ Pawley, C. (2000). Advocate for access: Lutie Stearns and the traveling libraries of the Wisconsin Free Library Commission, 1895-1914. Libraries &amp; Culture, 35(3), 434.  
         ^ The library contains 210 miniature volumes bound in light brown calf leather, ornately embossed and with gilded edges all in lockable double door cabinet. The bookcase is a small compilation of knowledge of history, travel, theater, moral teaching, mathematics, physics, chemistry, physics, economics, botany, poetry and medicine - a total of 148 volumes that every enlightened lady should know and have in its collection. The collection is completed with 62 volumes of French literature - including works by Rousseau, Marmontel, Rabelais, Fontenelle, Florian and Cottin among others. The owner, Countess Dorota Batowska, was a daughter of Aleksander Benedykt Batowski, an officer and Livonian envoy to Four-Year Sejm.  
         ^ Travelling library; Leeds University Library  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Samuel Brown (1856), Some account of itinerating libraries and their founder, Edinburgh: W. Blackwood and Sons, OCLC&nbsp;4068181, OL&nbsp;6971736M 
       
        "Itinerating Libraries", Chambers's Encyclopaedia, 1860 
       
        Free Traveling Libraries in Wisconsin. Madison: Democrat Printing Company. 1897. 
       
        Lutie Stearns (1909), "Traveling Libraries", in Bailey (ed.), Cyclopedia of American Agriculture, vol.&nbsp;4, Macmillan 
       
        Commission, Texas Library Historical (1917), "How to Secure a Traveling Library", Biennial Report of the Texas Library and Historical Commission, USA 
       
        Estellene P. Walker (1981). "The Seaboard Airline Railway Free Traveling Library System". 'So Good and Necessary a Work': The Public Library in South Carolina 1698-1980. USA: South Carolina State Library. 
       Joanne E. Passet, "Reaching the Rural Reader: Traveling Libraries in America, 1892–1920," Libraries and Culture 26.1 (1991). JSTOR&nbsp;25542325. 
       
        Joanne E. Passet (1994). "Itinerating Libraries". In Wayne A. Wiegand and Donald G. Davis (ed.). Encyclopedia of Library History. Taylor &amp; Francis. pp.&nbsp;315–317. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8240-5787-9. 
       Alex Johnson (2015). "Libraries on the Move". In Improbable Libraries: A Visual Journey to the World's Most Unusual Libraries. The University of Chicago of Press. pp.&nbsp;16–17. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-26369-4
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mobile libraries.
         
       
       
      
       Photo of one of Samuel Brown's boxes, 19th century, via East Lothian Museums, Scotland 
       
        Larry T. Nix (ed.). "Traveling Libraries". Library History Buff. USA. 
       
        "United States Light House Establishment Traveling Library". USA: Michigan Lighthouse Conservancy. 
       
        "Traveling Libraries. Part 1: 'Books--Blessed Books'". USA: State Library of Kansas. 
       Photo of box created by Kentucky Library Commission of Frankfort, Kentucky, USA 
       Photo of Idaho women with library boxes, 1899 
       Photo of crates, Idaho State Free Traveling Library, USA, 1901 
       Photo of "Boise, Idaho -- work room where workers packed wooden crates for shipment to library stations," 1917 
        beautiful places to visit in the world
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Traveling_library&amp;oldid=1067596557"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Mobile libraries
       Types of library
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2014
       Articles needing additional references from November 2014
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from November 2014
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Français
       日本語
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 07:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
