
 
  
   
  E-Science librarianship - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   E-Science librarianship 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      E-Science librarianship refers to a role for librarians in e-Science.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early scholars 
        2 Academic research and health sciences libraries 
        3 Roles 
        4 Challenges for research libraries 
        5 Skills 
        6 Resources 
        7 References 
        
       
      Early scholars 
      Early references to e-Science and librarianship involve information studies scholars researching cyberinfrastructure and emerging networked information and knowledge communities. Notably Christine Borgman, Professor and Presidential Chair in Information Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) was a key player in bringing e-Science, and the idea of networked knowledge communities, to the attention of the library profession. In 2004, as a Visiting Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, she conducted research and lectured publicly on e-Science, Digital Libraries, and Knowledge Communities. In 2007 Anna K. Gold, formerly of MIT and Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo, authored a series of articles in D-Lib Magazine that opened the door for academic libraries to begin exploring roles, skills, and strategies for engaging in e-Science: Cyberinfrastructure, Data, and Libraries, Part 1: A Cyberinfrastructure Primer for Librarians and Cyberinfrastructure, Data, and Libraries, Part 2: Libraries and the Data Challenge: Roles and Actions for Libraries.  
      Academic research and health sciences libraries 
      In 2007, the Association of Research Libraries (ARL) e-Science task force issued its report on e-Science and librarianship. The ARL's report encouraged its member libraries to position themselves to engage with researchers involved in e-Science (eScience) by cultivating new research support strategies and developing their digital scholarship infrastructure. 
      E-Science has multiple attributes; Tony and Jessie Hey framed e-Science for the library community by characterizing it as a research methodology: "e-Science is not a new scientific discipline in its own right: e-Science is shorthand for the set of tools and technologies required to support collaborative, networked science". 
      In addition to academic libraries' interests in providing support for their researchers engaging in e-Science, the health sciences library community also emerged as a major proponent for creating librarian positions for supporting the information needs of large-scale, networked, research collaborations on their campuses. Neil Rambo, current director of NYU's Health Sciences Library and former director of University of Washington Health Sciences Library, was the first to use the term in the Journal of the Medical Library Association, in his 2009 editorial e-Science and the Biomedical Library. Rambo's definition of e-Science highlighted the potential e-Science held for creating data as a research product: "E-science is a new research methodology, fueled by networked capabilities and the practical possibility of gathering and storing vast amounts of data." In response to this article the University of Massachusetts Medical School Lamar Soutter Library and National Network of Libraries of Medicine, New England Region encouraged health sciences libraries to cooperate to identify skills and develop a program for training e-Science Librarians   
      Roles 
      
      
       Many areas of science are about to be transformed by the availability of vast amounts of new scientific data that can potentially provide insights at a level of detail never before envisaged. However, this new data dominant era brings new challenges for the scientists and they will need the skills and technologies both of computer scientists and of the library community to manage, search and curate these new data resources. Libraries will not be immune from change in this new world of research.
       
        — Tony and Jessie Hey
       
       
      Karen Williams identifies roles in the following areas for librarians in the developing world of e-Science.  
      
       Campus Engagement 
       Content/Collection Development and Management 
       Teaching and Learning 
       Scholarly Communication 
       E-Scholarship and Digital Tools 
       Reference/Help Services 
       Outreach 
       Fund Raising 
       Exhibit and Event Planning 
       Leadership
       
      Challenges for research libraries 
      
      
       E-science tends toward inter- and multidisciplinary approaches that depend on computation and computer science. Research libraries have traditionally been discipline focused and, although increasingly technologically sophisticated, do not have systems of the scale or complexity of the e-science environment. E-science is data intensive, but research libraries have not typically been responsible for scientific data. E-science is frequently conducted in a team context, often distributed across multiple institutions and on a global scale. The primary constituency of libraries generally comprises those affiliated with the local institution. Licenses for electronic content are typically restricted to a particular institutional community, and the infrastructure to move institutional licenses into a multi-institutional environment is not well developed. E-science challenges all these traditional paradigms of research library organization and services.
       
        — Neil Rambo
       
       
      Skills 
      Garritano &amp; Carlson were among the first to outline a skill set for librarians seeking to support the data needs of e-Science; they identified five skill categories librarians new to this area should expect to adapt or develop when participating on such projects:  
      
       Library and information science expertise 
       Subject expertise 
       Partnerships and outreach (both internal and external) 
       Participating in sponsored research 
       Balancing workload
       
      An example of librarians reconfiguring traditional librarian skills to meet the needs of researchers engaging in e-Science is Witt &amp; Carlson's adaptation of the traditional reference interview into a "data interview" in order to provide effective data management and e-Science services. This interview consists of ten practical queries necessary for understanding the provenance and expectations for the preservation of datasets typical of e-Science that also help illustrate some of the educational tools and skills needed by a librarian new to e-Science. "What is the story of the data? What form and format are the data in? What is the expected lifespan of the dataset? How could the data be used, reused, and repurposed? How large is the dataset, and what is its rate of growth? Who are the potential audiences for the data? Who owns the data? Does the dataset include any sensitive information? What publications or discoveries have resulted from the data? How should the data be made accessible?"  
      Resources 
      In 2009 the Lamar Soutter Library at the University of Massachusetts Medical School (UMMS) and the National Network of Libraries of Medicine, New England Region (NN/LM NER) funded an e-Science program for building the skills highlighted above for librarians. Elaine Russo Martin, Director of Library Services at the Lamar Soutter Library and Director of the NN/LM NER developed this comprehensive e-Science program to build librarians' subject expertise in the sciences, developing their data management skills, and their familiarity with cyberinfrastructure and e-Science. Three major products of this program are the e-Science web portal for librarians, the E-Science Symposium, and the New England Collaborative Data Management Curriculum (NECDMC). This portal includes educational resources for specific tools and subject/discipline tutorials and modules to assist librarians new to e-Science. UMMS and NN/LM NER also publish an open access journal called the Journal of eScience Librarianship.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Christine L. Borgman. "E-Science, Digital Libraries, and Knowledge Communities" Public Lecture, Dept. of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Strathclyde. Glasgow, Scotland. Nov. 2004.  
         ^ "OII | Professor Christine Borgman".  
         ^ Gold A. Cyberinfrastructure, Data, and Libraries, Part 1: A Cyberinfrastructure Primer for Librarians. D-Lib Magazine . 2007;13(9/10). Available from: http://www.dlib.org/dlib/september07/gold/09gold-pt1.html  
         ^ Gold A. Cyberinfrastructure, Data, and Libraries, Part 2: Libraries and the Data Challenge: Roles and Actions for Libraries. D-Lib Magazine . 2007;13(9/10). Available from: http://www.dlib.org/dlib/september07/gold/09gold-pt2.html  
         ^ 
           Joint Task Force on Library Support for E-Science (November 2007). "Agenda for Developing E-Science in Research Libraries" (PDF). Final report. Association of Research Libraries. Retrieved September 19, 2011.  
         ^ a b c 
           Tony Hey; Jessie Hey (2006). "E-science and its implications for the library community" (PDF). Library Hi Tech. 24 (4): 515–528. doi:10.1108/07378830610715383.  
         ^ Rambo, N. E-science and biomedical libraries. J Med Libr Assoc. 2009 July; 97(3): 159–161.  
         ^ Martin, Elaine Russo and Kafel, Donna, "Response to Neil Rambo's editorial: "E-science and Biomedical Libraries" (2010). University of Massachusetts Medical School. Library Publications and Presentations. Paper 106. http://escholarship.umassmed.edu/lib_articles/106  
         ^ ARL Report: A Framework for Articulating New Roles in Librarianship http://www.arl.org/bm~doc/rli-265-williams.pdf  
         ^ Garritano, Jeremy R. and Carlson, Jake R. A Subject Librarian's Guide to Collaborating on E-Science Projects Issues in Science and Technology Librarianship, n57 Spr 2009.  
         ^ Witt, M. and Carlson, J.R. 2007. Conducting a Data Interview. Purdue University.  Available: https://docs.lib.purdue.edu/lib_research/81/.  
         ^ https://www.youtube.com/user/UMeScienceSymposium  
         ^ http://library.umassmed.edu/necdmc/  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2013-10-23. Retrieved 2014-05-22.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2009-11-01. Retrieved 2009-11-04.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Journal of eScience Librarianship - JeSLIB - Lamar Soutter Library - University of Massachusetts Medical School | Lamar Soutter Library | UMass Chan Medical School".  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=E-Science_librarianship&amp;oldid=1066466724"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 January 2022, at 14:04&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
