
 
  
   
  Distance education librarian - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Distance education librarian 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Type of specialized academic librarian
       
      A distance education librarian or distance learning librarian is a specialized academic librarian whose primary duties involve serving the information needs of distance education students, faculty, and staff. This position typically involves coordinating the duties of many librarians and library staff to ensure adequate access to library resources for those who enroll in and teach distance education courses.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Roles and duties 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Recognizing that distance education offerings were growing in post-secondary educational institutions, the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) published "Guidelines for Distance Learning Libraries in 2000". These guidelines asserted that, "members of the distance learning community are entitled to library resources equivalent to those provided for students and faculty in traditional campus settings". July 1, 2008, the ACRL Board of Directors approved the "Standards for Distance Learning Library Services". 
      The Standards are divided into two parts. Part I, Foundations, provides an executive summary of the Access Entitlement Principle, outlines the parameters by which the Standards will serve as a living document, offers definitions of terms associated with both distance education and academic librarianship, and formalizes the Standards' philosophy as "A Bill of Rights for the Distance Learning Community". Part II, Specific Requirements, dictates the fiscal responsibilities, personnel, library education, management, facilities and equipment, resources, services, and documentation necessary for each institution to provide equivalent services to distance education students and faculty. 
      Traditionally, academic librarians provide reference services to students, faculty, and staff; support curriculum and instruction through collection building and management of information resources; and provide bibliographic support and instruction to increase information literacy among patrons. Most institutions were already providing support to distance education students, faculty, and staff. The ACRL's "Standards for Distance Learning Library Services" made it necessary to formalize the function, roles, and duties of academic librarians who support distance education students and led to the creation of the job title distance education librarian.  
      Roles and duties 
      Distance education (DE) librarians work to ensure that distance education students and faculty have the same access as on-campus students to essential services including: reference assistance, library materials, bibliographic instruction, interlibrary loan and document delivery, and access to reserve materials. There are duties specific to DE Librarians as well. Distance education (DE) librarians serve as primary contacts at the library for distance education students and faculty. DE librarians may provide technical support or reference service over the phone, using instant messaging, replying to emails and reference service request forms, or through videoconferencing . DE librarians also design, maintain, and assess library DE web-pages and user interfaces. DE websites generally provide general information to DE students such as how to obtain a library card, and hours of operation for reference services. DE librarians also create specialized online tutorials covering topics such as information literacy education and using of remotely accessible library databases. DE librarians also assist faculty with designing course-specific web-pages and provide copyright advisement. 
      The ACRL acknowledges that distance education library service delivery methods will vary from institution to institution, but should be developed using the same professional standards and guidelines used by other academic libraries.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Reitz, Joan M. "ODLIS Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science". Web. Retrieved 5 August 2011.  
         ^ a b c d e f Gandhi, Smiti. "Academic Librarianship and Distance Education: Challenges and Opportunities." Reference &amp; User Services Quarterly 43.2. Winter 2003: 139-152. Library, Information Science &amp; Technology Abstracts. Web. 16 Jul. 2011  
         ^ a b c d e 
           "Standards for Distance Learning Library Services". Association of College and Research Libraries. Retrieved 4 August 2011.  
         ^ a b c 
           Farkas, Meredith. "A Day in the Life of a Distance Learning Librarian". Web. Wordpress. Retrieved 21 July 2011.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Wyss, Paul (Jun 2008). "Getting Started as Distance Learning Librarian". College Student Journal. 42 (2): 440–448.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       "Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education". Association of College &amp; Research Libraries (ACRL), American Library Association, 2000. 
       "Guidelines for Behavioral Performance of Reference and Information Service Providers". Reference and User Services Association (RUSA), American Library Association, 2004. 
       "Guidelines for Implementing and Maintaining Virtual Reference Services". Reference and User Services Association (RUSA), American Library Association, 2004. 
       "Professional Competencies for Reference and User Services Librarians". Reference and User Services Association (RUSA), American Library Association, 2003.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Distance_education_librarian&amp;oldid=1014581662"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Librarians
       Distance education
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 27 March 2021, at 22:43&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
