
 
  
   
  Music librarianship - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Music librarianship 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Music librarianship is the area of librarianship that pertains to music collections and their development, cataloging, preservation and maintenance, as well as reference issues connected with musical works and music literature. Music librarians usually have degrees in both music and librarianship (typically, a Master of Library and Information Science and at least a college-level music degree). Music librarians deal with standard librarianship duties such as cataloging and reference, but the addition of music scores and recordings to collections complicates these tasks. Therefore, music librarians generally read music and have at least a basic understanding of both music theory and music history to aid in their duties.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Education 
        3 Facilities 
        4 Areas of practice 
          
          4.1 Cataloging and classification 
          4.2 References 
          4.3 Acquisition and collection development 
           
        5 Preservation 
          
          5.1 Special collections 
            
            5.1.1 Performance 
            5.1.2 Production 
            5.1.3 Antiquarian and rare collections 
            5.1.4 Digital collections 
             
           
        6 Technology 
        7 Professional organizations 
        8 Current issues 
        9 References 
        10 Further reading 
          
          10.1 General 
          10.2 Journals 
          10.3 History 
          10.4 Education 
          10.5 Cataloging 
          10.6 Citations 
          10.7 Acquisition, collection development and maintenance 
          10.8 Preservation 
          10.9 Copyright 
          10.10 Publishing 
          10.11 Miscellaneous 
           
        11 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Most early written classical music was predominantly sacred; collections of written music and literature were held by monasteries, cathedrals, and other religious establishments, such as church music societies, offices, and seminaries. As universities emerged in the 12th century, libraries formed throughout Europe, and obtained donations or gifts from monasteries and private collectors. The advent of national and centralized libraries two centuries later allowed for greater attention to special materials like music collections. Up to the end of the 15th century, music collections had been limited to religious organizations, private collectors, or small areas of university libraries. Public collections grew with the development of printing at the end of the 15th century and the surge of scholarly and artistic endeavors of the Renaissance. 
      Music librarianship since the Renaissance has grown alongside modern librarianship, but with more unique, dedicated facilities for materials. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the establishment of conservatories created a need for music collections that supported learning at those institutions. While the proliferation of classification schemes has given music a niche in modern public and academic collections, other institutions maintaining music-only collections have contributed to the rise of music libraries. These include conservatories, music information centers, composers' and performing rights associations, opera houses, music publishers, and media facilities involved with broadcasting and film.  
      Education 
      In the United States, most librarianship degrees begin at the graduate level. At the undergraduate level, potential music librarians study music at any number of schools and programs (theory, history, performance, production, business and education). Following the coupling of an MLS and undergraduate music degree, many music librarians also elect to study music at the graduate level. Additionally, doctorate programs are available in both music and library science. In Masters level degrees of library science, typical music-oriented offerings examine the different materials of music collections, such as music-specific dictionaries, encyclopedias, bibliographies, indexes, and other music literature. Music librarianship offerings may also address music reference, cataloging issues, collection development and maintenance, binding and repair, preservation, evaluation methods of antiquarian material appraisal, and music librarianship education (teaching methods). Certain music librarianship areas of practice do not require a library degree—performance library management, for example. 
      In 1974, the Music Library Association published a set of qualifications for music librarians. The "minimum qualifications expected of a beginning music librarian" were restricted to knowledge of materials and resources of the music library, general librarianship skills, and general music knowledge which states that candidates for music librarian positions should have music degrees preferably a bachelor's and a master's degree; a master's in library science; courses in music librarianship and/or experience working in a music library; familiarity with foreign languages, and a commitment to continued growth and education as seen through work in professional organizations, such as the Music Library Association. 
      Librarians usually receive on-the-job training to become familiar with the inner workings of their collections. This may include training in a particular classification scheme (such as Library of Congress Classification or ANSCR), binding procedures, or protocols regarding patron usage of materials. Additionally, many librarians elect to participate in continuing education classes and programs available through professional organizations and other outlets. For example, music librarians preparing for a large scale cataloging project might take a cataloging workshop focusing on a particular scheme or music cataloging issue. Librarians training for a position that involves a new technology might apply to classes offered by external companies in specific software or hardware. 
      The ultimate goal of music library education is to engender core competencies in students preparing to enter the field. 
      The Music Library Association maintains a list of library and information science schools that teach music librarianship or accept music credits as part of their library degree programs.  
      Facilities 
      
      
       See also: Music library
       
      Music librarians work with collections in a variety of settings. Music libraries take several forms, and often are maintained as a part of a larger collection or institution. 
      The nature of a music library facility depends heavily on the role of the music library within its parent institution. At academic institutions dedicated to music (such as a music conservatory), the music library may be the main library collection of the school. In colleges or universities where music is only one aspect of academic focus, the music collection may be integrated into the greater library system, or a separate collection from the main library. 
      Performance music libraries serve a unique function and are often housed with performance spaces. Entirely digital music collections require server space and proper housing of digitization equipment, although many music libraries in the process of digitization have facilities for such services. Other factors influencing facilities include the types of materials in the collection, the users who will access those materials, and budget constraints related to implementation, acquisition, maintenance, and service.  
      Areas of practice 
      Most music librarians have an array of tasks to perform, depending on the nature of their collection and position. General duties include cataloging and reference, acquisition and collection development. It is common to specialize in one or more areas of music librarianship, particularly for work in special collections.  
      Cataloging and classification 
      Music materials require different cataloging methods than other fields. While music literature can be classified and cataloged following general cataloging rules that apply to all subjects, music scores and sound recordings present unique challenges of both description and access. Examples include uniform titles, responsibility (composer versus performer), and how to classify sound recordings (by genre, composer, etc.).  
      References 
      Music reference requires knowledge of music history, the ability to read music and have at least a basic understanding of music theory, and a strong grasp of music reference literature: dictionaries and encyclopedias, indexes and directories, bibliographies and discographies, and music score formats. Reference also necessitates adeptness with electronic resources and tools. Reading ability in German and Romance languages are practical skills to possess when working closely with western classical music. When working with non-western music, an ethnomusicology background may be essential.  
      Acquisition and collection development 
      In order to grow their collections, music librarians purchase books and music reference materials, subscribe to serials, order music scores and sound recordings, and buy or license electronic resources. This involves not only contact with publishers and other agencies that provide music materials, but also budgetary management of library funds.  
      Preservation 
      
      
       See also: Digital preservation
       
      Preservation of music is the maintenance of musical compositions and preventing music from extinction. Music collections require certain conditions for the preservation of printed materials. Appropriate air regulation prevents the accumulation of moisture, and materials should be protected from the possibility of water or fire damage. Music scores often need new binding either because of weak publisher bindings or due to age. Although binding is done mainly for preservation, it also to provide uniformity (binding music allows for uniform barcode or call number placement, for example). Music library staff usually allocate part of their duties to managing binding and processing of scores. Some music libraries outsource binding to professional companies, and a few music libraries have dedicated binding staff and resources. 
      Sound recordings present another level of preservation. Light protection, temperature and humidity control, and particular shelving, packaging, and cleaning procedures must be followed for proper storage for preserving physical materials. Electronic files (documents and sound recordings) require preservation, too. Migration, replication, emulation, and metadata attachment aid in preservation of digital documents.  
      Special collections 
      Performance 
      Performance music librarians act as support for performing groups by acquiring printed music and preparing it for performance. Preparation involves managing multiple parts, collating and creating folders of music for each player, and usually marking specific notes or edits in the music, such as bowing directions for string instruments. Performance libraries then store the music for future performance or return it (if the music has been rented).  
      Production 
      
      
       See also: Production music
       
      Production music librarians maintain collections that own licensed music. This music is distributed on license to other institutions or performing groups for profit.  
      Antiquarian and rare collections 
      Antiquarian music collections are usually housed in very large music libraries, institutional special collections archives, or in private collections. The antiquarian trade often involves purchasing materials from private collections at auctions. Antiquarian and rare materials require extra care in handling and preservation. The age of materials can reach back several hundred years and can have considerable value.  
      Digital collections 
      
      
       See also: Digital library
       
      Digitization is the process by which printed music or literature is converted to digital formats by a scanner. Digitization is also the process of transferring audio formats (for example, converting music on an LP record to mp3). Materials may also be born-digital; that is, created originally as a digital document or file. Many music librarians dedicate part of their duties to digitizing elements of their collection. Some libraries are entirely digital collections, and may not have physical access at all. These are usually hosted on the Internet or a network, and most often electronic access is limited to specific user groups (sometimes by subscription). Digital libraries deal with digital decay, security and access, and copyright issues involved with distributing and/or copying data to users.  
      Technology 
      Because of the nature of the materials in a music library, music librarians employ technologies related to audio delivery, access to digital material, and print music preservation and presentation. 
      Audio collections require dependable audio-delivery systems, including headphones, receivers, and audio players (CD, DAT, phonograph, etc.). Attention is paid in particular to where listening stations are located in the library, to accommodate for noise, access to audio materials, and access to other technology like computers (especially if audio is streamed through a computer from an online digital collection). Some libraries may opt for listening stations or rooms separate from the main library area. 
      Music libraries that digitize parts of their collection require scanners for printed materials, and devices for transferring analog audio to digital formats. Computers are needed to control, convert, stream, store, preserve, or otherwise manipulate digitized material. Entirely digital collections involve technology for connecting users to electronic materials, usually hosted on the Internet. Information professionals involved with these projects deal with issues such as streaming, security and access, copy protection and copyright, and database management.  
      Professional organizations 
      Professional organizations related to music librarianship include:  
      
       The Music Library Association (MLA): the official organization for the music librarianship profession in the United States 
       International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres (IAML): a group with a wide scope, sustaining the development of music library projects around the world. 
       The Canadian Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres | (CAML): the Canadian branch of IAML. 
       Major Orchestra Librarians' Association (MOLA): Generally dedicated to performance music library issues, MOLA membership is open to conductors, musicians, and publishers, as well as performance music librarians. 
       Association of College and Research Libraries, Arts Section (ACRL ARTS): ACRL ARTS is a division of the American Library Association (ALA), the main professional organization for librarians in the United States. This division focuses on both visual and performing arts, and is like a smaller version of the Music Library Association. 
       Audiovisual Catalogers (OLAC): a support website for cataloging issues related to AV materials, aiding in communication between catalogers as a means to develop uniform cataloging practices. 
       Theatre Library Association (TLA): The TLA is a support organization for librarians involved with performing arts collections, including dance, motion picture, and broadcasting. 
       Music OCLC Users Group (MOUG): The Music Online Computer Library Center Users Group is a resource for music librarians who use OCLC services. 
       American Musicological Society (AMS): The organization dedicated to research in different fields of music. 
       Association for Recorded Sound Collections (ARSC): supports all types of audio collections and professions related to sound recordings. ARSC is geared particularly toward preservation and projects studying sound recordings and collections. 
       Society for American Music (SAM): The organization concerned with all aspects of North and Central American (and Caribbean) music.
       
      Additionally, music librarians will find support from academic and corporate institutions that offer grants, continuing education, inter-institutional cooperation (such as interlibrary loan or out-sourced services like digitization), and resources aiding in the completion of tasks in the field.  
      Current issues 
      Cataloging concerns remain constant topics for debate in music librarianship. Digitization problems and electronic bibliographic, reference and archival tools are also at the front lines of the field as library technology moves forward. Efficiency of digitization has been increasing as library storage space has been diminishing, so more libraries are turning toward digitization not only to preserve materials in electronic formats, but also to save space. The open access movement is having an effect on music libraries, notably in subscription- or fee-based electronic services versus freely accessible electronic services. 
      Copyright is another major issue in this field. As a score travels from the pen of a composer to the music stand of a performer, it changes many hands. Composers may copyright and even distribute their own work, but it might also be distributed by a corporate publisher. Music libraries pay for copies of works, but sometimes only rent the work through a license. Because music copyright is an intricate issue, music librarians must carefully abide by copyright guidelines, such as those noted on the Music Library Association website. 
      Major field publications such as Notes (the MLA's quarterly journal), as well as email listservs, forums, and presentations at meetings of professional organizations, highlight and analyze key trends in music librarianship.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Benton, Rita. Libraries §2 Early History. Grove Music.  
         ^ Benton, Rita. Libraries §3 Types. Grove Music.  
         ^ MLA. "Music Librarianship: Is it for you?" Music Library Association: MLA Employment and Education. http://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/employmentanded/musiclibrarianship.shtml  
         ^ Oates, J. (2004). Music Librarianship Education: Problems and Solutions. Music Reference Services Quarterly, pp. 1-24.  
         ^ "Core Competencies for Music Librarians and Music Library Professionals" Music Library Association, 2019. http://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/pdf/Core_Competencies.pdf  
         ^ This list is current as of January 2018: "Directory of Library School Offerings in Music Librarianship"  
         ^ Jones, Malcolm. Music Librarianship. London: Clive Bingley, 1979. 15-16.  
         ^ Redfern, Brian L.. Organising Music in Libraries: Cataloguing. United Kingdom: C. Bingley, 1978. 17.  
         ^ Smiraglia, Richard. Bibliographic Control of Music, 1897-2000. MLA Index and Bibliography Series No. 32. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2006. 6-8.  
         ^ Jones, Malcolm. Music Librarianship. London: Clive Bingley, 1979. 74-78.  
         ^ MLA. "Music Librarianship: Is it for you?" Music Library Association: MLA Employment and Education. http://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/employmentanded/musiclibrarianship.shtml  
         ^ Roosa, Mark and Jane Gottlieb. Knowing the Score: Preserving Collections of Music. MLA Technical Reports No. 23. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1994. 8-11.  
         ^ "Cylinder, Disc and Tape Care in a Nutshell (Preservation, Library of Congress)." Library of Congress. https://www.loc.gov/preserv/care/record.html  
         ^ Rothenberg, J. "Ensuring the Longevity of Digital Documents." Scientific American 272, 1 (1995). http://www.clir.org/pubs/archives/ensuring.pdf  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      This is a bibliography of resources available on music librarianship, organized by areas of practice.  
      General 
      
       
       
        Bradley, Carol. American Music Librarianship: A Research and Information Guide. New York: Routledge, 2005. 
        Bryant, E. T. Music Librarianship: A Practical Guide. 2nd ed. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, 1985. 
        Careers in Music Librarianship: Perspectives From the Field. MLA Technical Reports No. 18. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1990. 
        Careers in Music Librarianship II: Traditions and Transitions. MLA Technical Reports No. 29. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2004. 
        "Core Competencies and Music Librarians" Music Library Association, 2019. https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.musiclibraryassoc.org/resource/resmgr/docs/core_competencies_2019.pdf. 
        Duckles, Vicent, ed. Music Libraries and Librarianship. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois, Graduate School of Library Science, 1960 (special issue of Library Trends, vol. 8, no. 4, April 1960). 
        Griscom, Richard, ed. Music Librarianship at the Turn of the Century. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2000. 
        Jones, Malcolm. Music Librarianship. London: Clive Bingley, 1979. 
        Mann, Alfred, ed. Modern Music Librarianship: Essays in honor of Ruth Watanabe. New York: Pendragon Press, 1989. 
        Marco, Guy A. and Wolfgang Freitag, jt. eds. Music and Fine Arts in the General Library. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois, Graduate School of Library Science, 1975 (special issue of Library Trends, vol. 23, no. 3, Jan. 1975). 
        MLA Basic Manual Series. Music Library Association, March 2002-. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/Basicmanualseries. 
        MLA Index and Bibliography Series. Music Library Association, 1964-. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/Indexbibliography. 
        MLA Technical Reports. Music Library Association, 1973-. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/techreports. 
        Overton, C. David. The Gramophone Record Library. London: Grafton &amp; Co., 1951. 123 p. 
        Reader in Music Librarianship. Ed. Carol June Bradley. Washington, D.C.: Microcard Editions, 1973. 
        Zecca Laterza, Agostina, ed. Bibliotheche musicali. Roma: Artigiana multistampa, 1984 (special issue of Bollettino d'informazioni Associazione italiana biblioteche, n s, anno 24, n. 2/3, April/Sept. 1984).
        
       Journals 
       
        Fontes Artis Musicae. International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres. https://www.iaml.info/fontes-artis-musicae. 
        Music Reference Services Quarterly. Taylor &amp; Francis. https://taylorandfrancis.com/. 
        Notes; Quarterly Journal of the Music Library Association. Music Library Association. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/Notes.
        
       History 
       
        Bradley, Carol. American Music Librarianship: A Biographical and Historical Survey. New York: Greenwood Press, 1990. 
        Benton, Rita. Libraries §2 Early History. Grove Music. 
        Benton, Rita. Libraries §3 Types. Grove Music.
        
       Education 
       
        Marley, Judith. "Education for Music Librarianship within the United States." Fontes Artis Musicae 49.3 (July–September 2002). 
        "Directory of Library School Offerings in Music Librarianship." 11th ed. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/LibSchoolDirectoryI. 
        "Jobs and Careers." Music Library Association. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/JobsAndCareers. 
        "Workshops, Webinars, and eCourses." Music Library Association. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/Workshops.
        
       Cataloging 
       
        Association for Recorded Sound Collections, Associated Audio Archives. Rules for Archival Cataloging of Sound Recordings. Rev. : Association for Recorded Sound Collections, 1995. 
        Anglo-American Cataloging Rules. 2nd ed., 2002 revision, 2005 update. Chicago: American Library Association, 2002. 
        ISBD (PM): International Standard Bibliographic Description for Printed Music, 1991. 
        Harden, Jean.  Music Description and Access: Solving the Puzzle of Cataloging. MLA Technical Reports No. 34. Middleton, Wisconsin: A-R Editions, 2017. 
        Krummel, Donald. Guide for Dating Early Published Music: A Manual of Bibliographical Practices. Hackensack, NJ: J. Boonin, 1974. 
        Music Cataloging Bulletin. Middleton, WI: Music Library Association, 1992-. https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/page/musiccatbulletin. 
        Music OCLC Users Group Newsletter. Bloomington, IN: Music OCLC Users Group, 1977-. 
        Redfern, Brian. Organizing Music in Libraries. Vol. 1: Arrangement and Classification. London: Clive Bingley, Ltd., 1978. 
        ______. Organizing Music in Libraries. Vol. 2: Cataloging. London: Clive Bingley, Ltd., 1979. 
        Smiraglia, Richard. Bibliographic Control of Music, 1897-2000. MLA Index and Bibliography Series No. 32. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2006. 
        Sommerfield, David, ed. Proceedings of the Institute on Library of Congress Music Cataloging Policies and Procedures. MLA Technical Reports No. 3 Washington, D.C.: Music Library Association, 1975. 
        Tucker, Ruth, ed. Authority Control in Music Libraries. Proceedings of the Music Library Association Preconference, March 5, 1985. MLA Technical Reports No. 16. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1990. 
        Wursten, Richard. In Celebration of Revised 780: Music in the Dewey Decimal Classification. MLA Technical Reports No. 19. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press Inc., 1990.
        
       Citations 
       
        Brockman, William. Music: A Guide to the Reference Literature. New York: Libraries Unlimited, Inc., 1988. 
        Crabtree, Philip. Sourcebook for Research in Music, 2nd ed. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2005. 
        Dolmetsch Online: Music Dictionary, https://www.dolmetsch.com/musictheorydefs.htm.* Duckles, Vincent, Reed, Ida. Music Reference and Research Materials, 5th ed. New York: Schirmer, 1998. 
        Gottlieb, Jane. Music Library and Research Skills. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2017. 
        Grove Music Online, https://www.oxfordmusiconline.com/grovemusic. 
        Green, Richard, ed. Foundations in Music Bibliography. New York: The Haworth Press, Inc., 1993. 
        Heyer, Anna Harriet. Historical Sets, Collected Editions, and Monuments of Music, 3rd ed. New York: American Library Association, 1980. 
        Krummel, Donald, et al. Resources of American Music History. Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1981. 
        The Music Index, 1949-. 
        RILM Abstracts of Musical Literature, 1967-. https://www.rilm.org/abstracts/. 
        Sampsel, Laurie J. Music Research: A Handbook. New York: Oxford University, 2020.
        
       Acquisition, collection development and maintenance 
       
        Carli, Alice. Binding and Care of Printed Music. MLA Basic Manual Series No. 12. Middleton, Wisconsin: A-R Editions, 2021. 
        Gottlieb, Jane. Collection Assessment in Music Libraries. MLA Technical Reports No. 22. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1994. 
        Fling, Michael. Library Acquisitions of Music. MLA Basic Manual Series No. 4. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2004. 
        A Basic Music Library: Essential scores and sound recordings. 3rd ed. Comp. Music Library Association. Chicago: American Library Association, 1997.
        
       Preservation 
       
        Brylawski, Sam, Maya Lerman, Robin Pike, and Kathlin Smith, eds. ARSC Guide to Audio Preservation. CLIR Pub 164, May 2015. https://www.clir.org/pubs/reports/pub164/. 
        Hooper, lisa and Donald C. Force. Keeping Time: An Introduction to Archival Best Practices for Music Librarians. MLA Basic Manual Series No. 9. Middleton, Wisconsin: A-R Editions, 2014. 
        Roosa, Mark and Jane Gottlieb. Knowing the Score: Preserving collections of music. MLA Technical Reports No. 23. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 1994. 
        Rothenberg, J. "Ensuring the Longevity of Digital Documents." Scientific American 272, 1 (1995). http://www.clir.org/pubs/archives/ensuring.pdf (updated in 1999) 
        "Proper Care and Handling of Audio Visual Materials (Preservation, Library of Congress)." Library of Congress. https://www.loc.gov/preserv/care/record.html.
        
       Copyright 
       
        Copyright for Music Librarians, https://www.musiclibraryassoc.org/mpage/copyright_home. 
        U.S. Copyright Office, https://www.loc.gov/copyright/. 
        Copyright Registration for a Work of the Performing Arts, https://www.copyright.gov/registration/performing-arts/.
        
       Publishing 
       
        King, A. Hyatt. Four Hundred Years of Music Printing. London: The British Library, 1968. 
        Krummel, Donald. The Literature of Music Bibliography: An Account of the Writings on the History of Music Printing and Publishing. New York: Fallen Leaf Press, 1993. 
        Krummel, Donald, and Stanley Sadie, eds. Music Printing and Publishing. Grove Publications, 1990.
        
       Miscellaneous 
       
        A Manual for the Performance Library. MLA Basic Manual Series No. 6. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2006. 
        Farrington, Jim. Audio and Equipment Basics for Librarians. MLA Basic Manual Series No. 5. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2006.
        
       
      External links 
      
       Music Library Association 
       IAML – International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres 
       Copyright For Music Librarians via the Music Library Association
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Music_librarianship&amp;oldid=1067691011"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library occupations
       Occupations in music
       Music libraries
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Français
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 17:47&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
