
 
  
   
  Carnegie library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Carnegie library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Libraries donated by Andrew Carnegie
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Carnegie library (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Andrew Carnegie, c. 1905, National Portrait Gallery
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Plaque at the Taunton Public Library in Massachusetts
        
       
       
      A Carnegie library is a library built with money donated by Scottish-American businessman and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie. A total of 2,509 Carnegie libraries were built between 1883 and 1929, including some belonging to public and university library systems. 1,689 were built in the United States, 660 in the United Kingdom and Ireland, 125 in Canada, and others in Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Serbia, Belgium, France, the Caribbean, Mauritius, Malaysia, and Fiji. 
      At first, Carnegie libraries were almost exclusively in places with which he had a personal connection—namely his birthplace in Scotland and the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area, his adopted home-town. Yet, beginning in the middle of 1899, Carnegie substantially increased funding to libraries outside these areas. As Carnegie's library funding progressed, very few of the towns that requested a grant, committing to his terms for operation and maintenance, were refused. By the time the last grant was made in 1919, there were 3,500 libraries in the United States, nearly half of them known as Carnegie libraries, as they were built with construction grants paid by Carnegie.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Background 
        3 Carnegie formula 
        4 Design 
        5 Self-service stacks 
        6 Criticisms 
        7 Continuing legacy 
        8 Gallery 
        9 Lists of Carnegie libraries 
        10 See also 
        11 Notes 
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The first Carnegie library, in Dunfermline, Scotland
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Carnegie Free Library of Braddock in Braddock, Pennsylvania, built in 1888, was the first Carnegie Library in the United States to open (1889) and the first of four to be fully endowed.
        
       
       
      Carnegie started erecting libraries in places with which he had personal associations. The first of Carnegie's public libraries, Dunfermline Carnegie Library was in his birthplace, Dunfermline, Scotland. It was first commissioned or granted by Carnegie in 1880 to James Campbell Walker and would open in 1883. 
      The first library in the United States to be commissioned by Carnegie was in 1886 in his adopted hometown of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, (now the North Side of Pittsburgh). In 1890, it became the second of his libraries to open in the US. The building also contained the first Carnegie Music Hall in the world. 
      The first Carnegie library to open in the United States was in Braddock, Pennsylvania, about 9 miles up the Monongahela river from Pittsburgh. In 1889 it was also the site of one of the Carnegie Steel Company's mills. It was the second Carnegie Library in the United States to be commissioned, in 1887, and was the first of the four libraries which he fully endowed. An 1893 addition doubled the size of the building and included the third Carnegie Music Hall in the United States. 
      Initially Carnegie limited his support to a few towns in which he had a personal interest. These were in Scotland and the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area. In the United States, nine of the first 13 libraries which he commissioned are all located in Southwestern Pennsylvania. The Braddock, Homestead, and Duquesne libraries were owned not by municipalities, but by Carnegie Steel, which constructed them, maintained them, and delivered coal for their heating systems. Architectural critic Patricia Lowry wrote "to this day, Carnegie's free-to-the-people libraries remain Pittsburgh's most significant cultural export, a gift that has shaped the minds and lives of millions." 
      In 1897, Carnegie hired James Bertram as his personal assistant. Bertram was responsible for fielding requests from municipalities for funds and overseeing the dispensing of grants for libraries. When Bertram received a letter requesting a library, he sent the applicant a questionnaire inquiring about the town's population, whether it had any other libraries, how large its book collection was, and what its circulation figures were. If initial requirements were met, Bertram asked the amount the town was willing to pledge for the library's annual maintenance, whether a site was being provided, and the amount of money already available. 
      Until 1898, only one library was commissioned in the United States outside Southwestern Pennsylvania: a library in Fairfield, Iowa, commissioned in 1892. It was the first project in which Carnegie had funded a library to which he had no personal ties. The Fairfield project was part of a new funding model to be used by Carnegie (through Bertram) for thousands of additional libraries. 
      Beginning in 1899, Carnegie's foundation funded a dramatic increase in the number of libraries. This coincided with the rise of women's clubs in the post-Civil War period. They primarily took the lead in organizing local efforts to establish libraries, including long-term fundraising and lobbying within their communities to support operations and collections. They led the establishment of 75–80 percent of the libraries in communities across the country. 
      Carnegie believed in giving to the "industrious and ambitious; not those who need everything done for them, but those who, being most anxious and able to help themselves, deserve and will be benefited by help from others." Under segregation black people were generally denied access to public libraries in the Southern United States. Rather than insisting on his libraries being racially integrated, Carnegie funded separate libraries for African Americans in the South. For example, in Houston he funded a separate Colored Carnegie Library. The Carnegie Library in Savannah, Georgia, opened in 1914 to serve black residents, who had been excluded from the segregated white public library. The privately organized Colored Library Association of Savannah had raised money and collected books to establish a small Library for Colored Citizens. Having demonstrated their willingness to support a library, the group petitioned for and received funds from Carnegie. U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in his 2008 memoirs that he frequently used that library as a boy, before the public library system was desegregated. 
      The library buildings were constructed in a number of styles, including Beaux-Arts, Italian Renaissance, Baroque, Classical Revival, and Spanish Colonial, to enhance their appearance as public buildings. Scottish Baronial was one of the styles used for libraries in Carnegie's native Scotland. Each style was chosen by the community. As the years went by James Bertram, Carnegie's secretary, became less tolerant of approving designs that were not to his taste. Edward Lippincott Tilton, a friend often recommended by Bertram, designed many of the buildings. 
      The architecture was typically simple and formal, welcoming patrons to enter through a prominent doorway, nearly always accessed via a staircase from the ground level. The entry staircase symbolized a person's elevation by learning. Similarly, most libraries had a lamp post or lantern installed near the entrance, meant as a symbol of enlightenment. 
      Carnegie's grants were very large for the era, and his library philanthropy is one of the most costly philanthropic activities, by value, in history. Carnegie continued funding new libraries until shortly before his death in 1919. Libraries were given to Great Britain and much of the English-speaking world: Almost $56.2 million went for construction of 2,509 libraries worldwide. Of that, $40 million was given for construction of 1,670 public library buildings in 1,412 American communities. Small towns received grants of $10,000 that enabled them to build large libraries that immediately were among the most significant town amenities in hundreds of communities.  
      Background 
      Books and libraries were important to Carnegie, from his early childhood in Scotland and his teen years in Allegheny/Pittsburgh. There he listened to readings and discussions of books from the Tradesman's Subscription Library, which his father had helped create. Later in Pennsylvania, while working for the local telegraph company in Pittsburgh, Carnegie borrowed books from the personal library of Colonel James Anderson. He opened his collection to his workers every Saturday. Anderson, like Carnegie, resided in Allegheny. 
      In his autobiography, Carnegie credited Anderson with providing an opportunity for "working boys" (that some people said should not be "entitled to books") to acquire the knowledge to improve themselves. Carnegie's personal experience as an immigrant, who with help from others worked his way and became wealthy, reinforced his belief in a society based on merit, where anyone who worked hard could become successful. This conviction was a major element of his philosophy of giving in general. His libraries were the best-known expression of this philanthropic goal. In 1900, Carnegie granted funds to build the Anderson Memorial Library, in memory of Colonel James Anderson, at the College of Emporia.  
      Carnegie formula 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Carnegie laying the foundation stone of the Waterford City Library (1903)
        
       
       
      Nearly all of Carnegie's libraries were built according to "the Carnegie formula," which required financial commitments for maintenance and operation from the town that received the donation. Carnegie required public support rather than making endowments because, as he wrote:  
      
       
        "an endowed institution is liable to become the prey of a clique. The public ceases to take interest in it, or, rather, never acquires interest in it. The rule has been violated which requires the recipients to help themselves. Everything has been done for the community instead of its being only helped to help itself."
       
       
      Carnegie required the elected officials—the local government—to:  
      
       demonstrate the need for a public library; 
       provide the building site; 
       pay staff and maintain the library; 
       draw from public funds to run the library—not use only private donations; 
       annually provide ten percent of the cost of the library's construction to support its operation; and, 
       provide free service to all.
       
      Carnegie assigned the decisions to his assistant James Bertram. He created a "Schedule of Questions." The schedule included: Name, status and population of town, Does it have a library? Where is it located and is it public or private? How many books? Is a town-owned site available? Estimation of the community's population at this stage was done by local officials, and Bertram later commented that if the population counts he received were accurate, "the nation's population had mysteriously doubled". 
      The effects of Carnegie's library philanthropy coincided with a peak in new town development and library expansion in the US. By 1890, many states had begun to take an active role in organizing public libraries, and the new buildings filled a tremendous need. It was also a time of rapid development of institutions of higher learning. Interest in libraries was also heightened at a crucial time in their early development by Carnegie's high profile and his genuine belief in their importance. 
      In Canada in 1901, Carnegie offered more than $2.5&nbsp;million to build 125 libraries. Most cities at first turned him down—then relented and took the money. 
      In 1902, Carnegie offered funds to build a library in Dunedin in New Zealand. Between 1908 and 1916, 18 Carnegie libraries were opened across New Zealand.  
      Design 
      The Lawrenceville Branch of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh signaled a break from the Richardsonian style of libraries which was popularized in the mid 1800s. The ALA discouraged Richardsonian characteristics such as alcoved book halls with high shelves requiring a ladder, as well as sheltered galleries and niches, reminiscent of sixteenth-century Europe, largely because modern librarians could not supervise such spaces efficiently. 
      Bertram's architectural criteria included a lecture room, reading rooms for adults and children, a staff room, a centrally located librarian's desk, twelve-to-fifteen-foot ceilings, and large windows six to seven feet above the floor. No architectural style was recommended for the exterior, nor was it necessary to put Andrew Carnegie's name on the building. In the interests of efficiency, fireplaces were discouraged, since that wall space could be used to house more books. 
      There were no strict requirements about furniture, but most of it came from the Library Bureau, established by Melvil Dewey in 1888. It sold standardized chairs, tables, catalogs, and bookshelves.  
      Self-service stacks 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         One of the first open shelf libraries: Pittsburgh's South Side branch, about the time it opened in 1910 and had a massive front desk
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Original service desk at South Side branch in 1999. Originally designed to be imposing, it was replaced in 2011 by a side desk using original wood.
        
       
       
      The first five Carnegie libraries followed a closed stacks policy, the method of operation common to libraries at that time. Patrons requested a book from a library staffer, who would fetch the book from closed stacks off limits to the public, and bring it to a delivery desk. 
      To reduce operating costs, Carnegie created a revolutionary open-shelf or self-service policy, beginning with the Pittsburgh neighborhood branches that opened after the main branch. This streamlined process allowed patrons to have open access to shelves. Carnegie's architects designed the Pittsburgh neighborhood branches so that one librarian could oversee each entire operation. 
      Theft of books and other items was a major concern. This concern resulted in the placement of the library's circulation desk—which replaced the delivery desk used in traditional closed stacks libraries— in a strategic position just inside the front door. Bigger and more daunting than those used in modern libraries, these desks spanned almost the width of the lobby and acted as a physical and psychological barrier between the front entrance and the book room. 
      The first of these 'open stack' branches was in the neighborhood of Lawrenceville, the sixth Carnegie library to open in America. The next was in the West End branch, the eighth Carnegie library in the US. Patricia Lowry describes  
      
       located just beyond the lobby, the circulation desk—no longer a delivery desk—took center stage in Lawrenceville, flanked by turnstiles that admitted readers to the open stacks one at a time, under the librarian's watchful eye. To thwart thievery, the stacks were arranged in a radial pattern. On each side of the lobby were a general reading room and, for the first time in a library anywhere, a room for children.... The reading rooms were separated by walls that became glass partitions above waist level—the better to see you with, my dear.
       
      Walter E. Langsam, an architectural historian and teacher at the University of Cincinnati, wrote "The Carnegie libraries were important because they had open stacks which encouraged people to browse .... People could choose for themselves what books they wanted to read." This open stacks policy was later adopted by the libraries that previously had operated with closed stacks.  
      Criticisms 
      While the libraries gifted by Carnegie were certainly a valuable cultural asset, they weren't without their critics. First secretary of the Iowa Library Commission, Alice S. Taylor, criticized the use of Carnegie funding for extravagant buildings rather than providing quality library services. In fact, the library building itself was all that Carnegie funding covered. Carnegie gifted library buildings to cities on the condition that the cities stocked and maintained them. As a result, small communities often struggled with maintenance costs associated with Carnegie libraries; towns were often happy to accept funding for new library buildings, but often unwilling to allocate taxes for upkeep. In fact, this was the most frequent complaint about Carnegie libraries in hindsight: gifting libraries to towns too small to support them actually slowed the development of cooperative regional libraries that those communities now rely on. 
      There were also critics of Carnegie's libraries for social and political reasons. Some saw his massive donations as downright insulting to communities that would be content to fund their own public works. Others saw his push for public libraries as merely an attempt at social control, a way to tame the unruly lower classes. Mark Twain, a supporter of Carnegie, claimed that Carnegie used philanthropy as a tool to buy fame. Rev. William Jewett Tucker criticized Carnegie's philanthropy from a religious viewpoint, arguing that it did not offset his immoral accumulation of wealth, and that his contributions don't justify the evils inherent in capitalism itself. Carnegie's own steel workers echoed this sentiment, arguing that his wealth would be better spent on improving working conditions for his own employees, rather than on library buildings across the country. Carnegie's response to those criticisms and the ensuing Homestead Steel Strike was telling of what he thought of his workers' concerns: "If I had raised your wages, you would have spent that money by buying a better cut of meat or more drink for your dinner. But what you needed, though you didn't know it, was my libraries and concert halls." 
      Carnegie's critics can be most efficiently summed up in the words of Finley Peter Dunne's parody of Carnegie himself: "Th' way to abolish poverty an' bust crime is to put up a brown-stone buildin' in ivry town in th' counthry." The idea that a building would be the panacea to cure all of society's ills, they argued, was simply not sustainable. 
      A further issue was the impact on pre-existing church libraries. The church had for many years promoted learning through free libraries. Typically the United Presbyterian Library of Edinburgh, based on Lothian Road, in Edinburgh under Rev Dr Robert James Drummond, failed to see the total financial collapse of their own library following the opening of the huge Carnegie Library in the city centre.  
      Continuing legacy 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Historical Society of Washington, D.C. is located in a former Carnegie library and is on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.
        
       
       
      Carnegie established charitable trusts which have continued his philanthropic work. But they had reduced their investment in libraries even before his death. There has continued to be support for library projects, for example in South Africa. 
      In 1992, The New York Times reported that, according to a survey conducted by George Bobinski, dean of the School of Information and Library Studies at the State University at Buffalo, 1,554 of the 1,681 original Carnegie library buildings in the United States still existed, and 911 were still used as libraries. He found that 276 were unchanged, 286 had been expanded, 175 had been remodeled, 243 had been demolished, and others had been converted to other uses. 
      While hundreds of the library buildings have been adapted for use as museums, community centers, office buildings, residences, or other uses, more than half of those in the United States still serve their communities as libraries over a century after their construction. Many are located in what are now middle- to low-income neighborhoods. For example, Carnegie libraries still form the nucleus of the New York Public Library system in New York City, with 31 of the original 39 buildings still in operation. Also, the main library and eighteen branches of the Pittsburgh public library system are Carnegie libraries. The public library system there is named the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 
      In the late 1940s, the Carnegie Corporation of New York arranged for microfilming of the correspondence files relating to Andrew Carnegie's gifts and grants to communities for the public libraries and church organs. They discarded the original materials. The microfilms are open for research as part of the Carnegie Corporation of New York Records collection, residing at Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Archivists did not microfilm photographs and blueprints of the Carnegie Libraries. The number and nature of documents within the correspondence files varies widely. Such documents may include correspondence, completed applications and questionnaires, newspaper clippings, illustrations, and building dedication programs. 
      UK correspondence files relating to individual libraries have been preserved in Edinburgh (see the article List of Carnegie libraries in Europe). 
      Beginning in the 1930s during the Great Depression, some libraries were meticulously measured, documented and photographed under the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) program of the National Park Service. This was part of an effort to record and preserve significant buildings.. Other documentation has been collected by local historical societies. In 1935, the centennial of Carnegie's birth, a copy of the portrait of him originally painted by F. Luis Mora was given to libraries which he had helped fund. Many of the Carnegie libraries in the United States, whatever their current uses, have been recognized by listing on the National Register of Historic Places. The first, the Carnegie Library in Braddock, Pennsylvania, was designated as a National Historic Landmark in March 2012. Some Carnegie Libraries, have been replaced in name with that of city libraries such as the Epiphany library in New York City.  
      Gallery 
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Edinburgh Central Library, built in 1890 in Edinburgh, Scotland  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carnegie Library, built in 1904 in Akron, Ohio  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Kilkenny Carnegie Library, built in 1910 in Kilkenny, Ireland  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carnegie Library, built in 1921 in Belgrade, Serbia  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carnegie Library, built in 1901 in Guthrie, Oklahoma  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          West Tampa Free Public Library, built in 1914 in Tampa, Florida  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          St. Petersburg Public Library, built in 1915 in St. Petersburg, Florida  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Beaumont Library built in 1914 in Beaumont, California  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carnegie Public Library, built in 1904 in Tyler, Texas  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carnegie Library, built in 1908 in Hokitika, New Zealand  
          
         
       
      Lists of Carnegie libraries 
      
      
       See also: Carnegie Library (disambiguation)
       
      
       List of Carnegie libraries in Africa 
       List of Carnegie libraries in Oceania 
       List of Carnegie libraries in Canada 
       List of Carnegie libraries in Europe 
       List of Carnegie libraries in the United States
       
      See also 
      
       Albert King Hawkes
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ 
           "James Campbell Walker". Dictionary of Scottish Architects. Archived from the original on September 16, 2016. Retrieved September 3, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ a b 
           "Carnegie's Library Legacy". Archived from the original on May 9, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ 
           "Carnegie Historical Museum – Fairfield Cultural District". fairfieldculturaldistrict.org. Archived from the original on April 6, 2014. Retrieved April 3, 2014.  
         ^ Paula D. Watson, "Founding Mothers: The Contribution of Women's Organizations to Public Library Development in the United States", Library Quarterly, Vol. 64, Issue 3, 1994, p.236  
         ^ Teva Scheer, "The "Praxis" Side of the Equation: Club Women and American Public Administration", Administrative Theory &amp; Praxis, Vol. 24, Issue 3, 2002, p. 525  
         ^ Andrew Carnegie, "The Best Fields for Philanthropy" Archived January 13, 2003, at the Wayback Machine, The North American Review, Volume 149, Issue 397, December 1889 from the Cornell University Library website  
         ^ This library has been discussed in Cheryl Knott Malone's essay, "Houston's Colored Carnegie Library, 1907–1922." While still in manuscript, it was awarded the Justin Winsor Prize in 1997. Accessed on-line August 2008 in a revised version Archived September 9, 2008, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Live Oak Public Libraries: Library History, 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on August 19, 2014. Retrieved August 18, 2014.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) (main page) 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on March 20, 2015. Retrieved August 18, 2014.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) (details), accessed August 17, 2014.  
         ^ Clarence Thomas, My Grandfather's Son: A Memoir, HarperCollins, 2008, pp. 17, 29, 30, Google Books  
         ^ 
           "Carnegie Libraries – Reading 2". Archived from the original on May 2, 2014.  
         ^ 
           Mausolf, Lisa B.; Hengen, Elizabeth Durfee (2007), Edward Lippincott Tilton: A Monograph on His Architectural Practice (PDF), archived from the original (PDF) on September 27, 2011, retrieved September 28, 2011, Many of these were Carnegie Libraries, public libraries built between 1886 and 1917 with funds provided by Andrew Carnegie or the Carnegie Corporation of New York. In all, Carnegie funding was provided for 1,681 public library buildings in 1,412 U.S. communities, with additional libraries abroad. Increasingly after 1908, Carnegie library commissions tended to be in the hands of a relatively small number of firms that specialized in library design. Tilton benefited from a friendship with James Bertram, who was responsible for reviewing plans for Carnegie-financed library buildings. Although the Carnegie program left the hiring of an architect to local officials, Bertram's personal letters of introduction gave Tilton a distinct advantage. As a result, Tilton won a large number of comparatively modest Carnegie library commissions, primarily in the northeast. Typically, Tilton furnished all plans, working drawings, details and specifications and associated with a local architect, who would supervise construction and receive 5% of Tilton's commission.  
         ^ 
           Studying transcultural literary history. Gunilla Lindberg-Wada. Berlin. 2006. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-11-092055-0. OCLC&nbsp;607884927.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ 
           Murray, Stuart (2009). The Library: An Illustrated History. New York: Skyhorse Chicago: ALA Editions. pp.&nbsp;174–91.  
         ^ M.J. Kevane and W.A. Sundstrom, "Public libraries and political participation, 1870–1940," Santa Clara University Scholar Commons (2016)online Archived December 20, 2016, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           Murray, Stuart (2009). The library&nbsp;: an illustrated history. New York: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-60239-706-4.  
         ^ "Andrew Carnegie: A Tribute: Colonel James Anderson" Archived February 11, 2004, at the Wayback Machine, Exhibit, Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh  
         ^ 
           Murray, Stuart (2009). The library&nbsp;: an illustrated history. New York: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN&nbsp;978-0838909911. OCLC&nbsp;277203534.  
         ^ 
           Gardiner, Allen. "Anderson Memorial Library". The Carnegie Legacy in Kansas. Archived from the original on August 5, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "An inside look at Anderson Memorial Library". Emporia Gazette. July 31, 2017. Archived from the original on December 21, 2020.  
         ^ 
           Carnegie, Andrew (December 1889). "The Best Fields for Philanthropy". North American Review. 149: 688–691.  
         ^ 
           Gigler, Rich (July 17, 1983). "Thanks, but no thanks". The Pittsburgh Press. p.&nbsp;12. Retrieved May 26, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Kevane, Michael; Sundstrom, William A. (April 30, 2014). "The Development of Public Libraries in the United States, 1870–1930: A Quantitative Assessment". Information &amp; Culture: A Journal of History. 49 (2): 117–144. doi:10.1353/lac.2014.0009. ISSN&nbsp;2166-3033. Archived from the original on February 2, 2017.  
         ^ Bobinski, p. 191  
         ^ Susan Goldenberg, "Dubious Donations," Beaver (2008) 88#2  
         ^ 
           Te Ara, The Encyclopedia of New Zealand (October 22, 2014). "Carnegie libraries in New Zealand". teara.govt.nz. Retrieved February 19, 2019.  
         ^ 
           Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ 
           Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ 
           Gangewere, Robert (2011). Palace of culture: Andrew Carnegie's museums and library in Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press.  
         ^ Al Andry, "New Life for Historic Libraries" Archived September 30, 2007, at the Wayback Machine, The Cincinnati Post, October 11, 1999  
         ^ Stuart Shana L. (2013). “My Duty and My Pleasure”: Alice S. Tyler’s Reluctant Oversight of Carnegie Library Philanthropy in Iowa. Information &amp; Culture, 48(1), 91-111, p. 93.  
         ^ Murray, S. (2009). The library: An illustrated history. Skyhorse Publishing, p. 184.  
         ^ Mickelson, P. &amp; Mickelson, P. (1975). American society and the public library in the thought of Andrew Carnegie. Journal of Library History, 10, 117–138, p. 123.  
         ^ Murray, 2009, p. 186.  
         ^ Mickelson &amp; Mickelson, 1975, p. 133.  
         ^ Murray, 2009, p. 185.  
         ^ Mickelson &amp; Mickelson, 1975, p. 131.  
         ^ Mickelson &amp; Mickelson, 1975, p.128.  
         ^ Ibid.  
         ^ Stamberg, S. (August 1, 2013). How Andrew Carnegie turned his fortune into a library legacy. NPR. https://www.npr.org/2013/08/01/207272849/how-andrew-carnegie-turned-his-fortune-into-a-library-legacy?sc=tw&amp;cc=share  
         ^ Ibid.  
         ^ Mickelson &amp; Mickelson, 1975, p. 129.  
         ^ The History of the Lothian Road United Free Church (Turnbull &amp; Spears) p.69  
         ^ The Carnegie Corporation and South Africa: Non-European Library Services Archived August 28, 2008, at the Wayback Machine Libraries &amp; Culture, Volume 34, No. 1 Archived June 12, 2010, at the Wayback Machine (Winter 1999), from the University of Texas at Austin  
         ^ 
           Strum, Charles (March 2, 1992), "Belleville Journal; Restoring Heritage and Raising Hopes for Future", The New York Times, archived from the original on November 14, 2013, retrieved September 29, 2011, Dr. George Bobinksi, dean of the School of Information and Library Studies at the State University at Buffalo, says 1,681 libraries were built with Carnegie money, mostly between 1898 and 1917.In a survey, he found that at least 1,554 of the buildings still exist, with only 911 of these still in use as public libraries. At least 276 of the survivors are unchanged, while 243 have been demolished, 286 have been expanded and 175 have been remodeled. Others have been turned into condominiums, community centers or shops.  
         ^ 
           "Carnegie libraries by state" (PDF). American Volksporting Association. 1996. Archived from the original (PDF) on April 14, 2012. Retrieved October 3, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh". Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on January 2, 2018. Retrieved April 29, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library". Archived from the original on January 14, 2009.  
         ^ Historic American Buildings Survey/Historic American Engineering Record (HABS/HAER) Archived May 16, 2008, at the Wayback Machine, Permanent Collection, American Memory from the Library of Congress  
         ^ 
           "Belmar Public Library". Wall, New Jersey. American towns. Retrieved October 3, 2011.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        Anderson, Florence. Carnegie Corporation Library Program, 1911–1961... (Carnegie Corporation of New York, 1963) 
        Bobinski, George S. "Carnegie libraries: Their history and impact on American public library development." ALA Bulletin (1968): 1361–1367. in JSTOR 
        Ditzion, Sidney. Arsenals of a Democratic Culture (American Library Association, 1947). 
        Fultz, Michael. "Black Public Libraries in the South in the Era of De Jure Segregation"  Libraries &amp; the Cultural Record (2006). 41(3), 337–359. 
        Garrison, Dee. Apostles of culture&nbsp;: the public librarian and American society, 1876–1920 (New York: Free Press, 1979). 
        Grimes, Brendan. (1998). Irish Carnegie Libraries: A catalogue and architectural history, Irish Academic Press. 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-7165-2618-2 
        Harris, Michael. (1974). "The Purpose of the American Public Library, A Revisionist Interpretation of History" Library Journal 98:2509–2514. 
        Jones, Theodore. (1997). Carnegie Libraries Across America: A Public Legacy, John Wiley &amp; Sons. 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-471-14422-3 
        Kevane, M.J. and W.A. Sundstrom, "Public libraries and political participation, 1870–1940" Santa Clara University Scholar Commons (2016)online; uses advanced statistics to find a new library had no effect on voter turnout 
        Kevane, Michael, &amp; Sundstrom, William A. (2014). "The Development of Public Libraries in the United States, 1870–1930: A Quantitative Assessment" Information and Culture, 49#2, 117–144. 
        Lorenzen, Michael. (1999). "Deconstructing the Carnegie Libraries: The Sociological Reasons Behind Carnegie's Millions to Public Libraries", Illinois Libraries. 81, no. 2: 75–78. 
        Martin, Robert Sidney. Carnegie denied: communities rejecting Carnegie Library construction grants, 1898–1925 (Greenwood Press, 1993) 
        Miner, Curtis. "The'Deserted Parthenon': Class, Culture and the Carnegie Library of Homestead, 1898–1937." Pennsylvania History (1990): 107–135. in JSTOR 
        Nasaw, David. Andrew Carnegie. New York: Penguin Press, 2006. 
        Pollak, Oliver B. A State of Readers, Nebraska's Carnegie Libraries, (Lincoln: J. &amp; L. Lee Publishers, 2005). 
        Prizeman, Oriel. Philanthropy and light: Carnegie libraries and the advent of transatlantic standards for public space (Ashgate, 2013). 
        Swetman, Susan H. (1991). "Pro-Carnegie library arguments and contemporary concerns in the intermountain west." Journal of the West 30#3, 63–68. 
        Watson, Paula. (1996). "Carnegie Ladies, Lady Carnegies&nbsp;: Women and the Building of Libraries." Libraries &amp; Culture 31#1, 159–196. 
        Watson, Paula D. (1994). "Founding mothers: the contribution of women's organizations to public library development in the United States" Library Quarterly 64(3), 233–270. 
        Wiegand, Wayne A. (2011). Main Street Public Library: Community Places and Reading Spaces in the Rural Heartland, 1876–1956 (University of Iowa Press).
        
       External links 
        
        
          
           
          Wikimedia Commons has media related to Carnegie libraries.
          
        
        
        
        
          
           
          Look up Carnegie library in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
          
        
        
       
        Skeen, Molly. (March 5, 2004) "How America's Carnegie Libraries Adapt to Survive", Preservation Online.
        
       
      
       Carnegie Libraries of Scotland - Landmarks of Literacy
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Lists of Carnegie libraries
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Canada 
             United States 
             Africa 
             Caribbean 
             Europe 
             Oceania
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          
            
            
             See also: Public library
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carnegie_library&amp;oldid=1057780524"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Carnegie libraries
       Andrew Carnegie
       Academic libraries
       Public libraries
       Philanthropy
       Library buildings
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       CS1 maint: others
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from July 2020
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from April 2019
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Boarisch
       Deutsch
       Español
       Français
       Հայերեն
       Italiano
       Magyar
       日本語
       Polski
       Русский
       Simple English
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 29 November 2021, at 16:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
