
 
  
   
  Periodicals librarian - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Periodicals librarian 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      A periodicals librarian or serials librarian is a librarian who works in the specialized area of periodical literature. A periodicals librarian can have a variety of duties, but generally work specifically with the acquisition, collection development, organization, preservation, and sometimes cataloging of periodicals. Whereas many periodicals librarians previously worked only with periodicals in print format, many now manage electronic periodicals also. While a periodicals librarians may work in any type of library, including academic, public, government, law, medical, or corporate libraries, a significant number work in larger public and academic libraries. In other libraries where there is no librarian assigned specifically to periodicals, one or more librarians may perform the duties of a periodicals librarian along with other duties.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Roles and duties 
        2 Education 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Roles and duties 
      The duties of a periodicals librarian are changing as technology and the needs of library patrons change. The duties may include, but are not limited to, establishing and maintaining subscriptions to periodicals in print, microform, and electronic formats; providing personal assistance and guidance in identifying, locating, and using periodicals; designing and conducting instructional sessions on how to use electronic journals and databases; evaluating the existing periodicals collection by performing collection analysis and usage studies; creating activities, programs, or presentations to promote the periodicals collection; establishing and maintaining contact with faculty, students, or other constituents to be sure the periodicals collection is meeting their needs; assisting and instructing faculty of a college, university, or school on the integrating of periodicals into the curriculum; supervising and developing student workers and support staff; managing budget allocations for materials, systems, and services; physical repair of periodicals; supervising paraprofessional staff, other librarians, and student workers (Kane, 74–75). 
      Advances in technology have significantly advanced the way that periodicals departments in libraries function. For example, open url resolvers, systems which allow a libraries to give greater visibility and access to their electronic journal content. Many libraries have gone to electronic-only subscriptions on some periodicals, significantly expanding access for their patrons. Periodicals librarians frequently set up access to electronic journals and other electronic resources, as well as to troubleshoot them when they do not work properly (Davis, 149).  
      Education 
      In most western nations, a periodicals librarian must have a master's degree in library science to work in an academic or public library. Generally, the master's degree takes one to two years to complete. Many academic and public libraries in the United States require a master's degree from a school of library science accredited by the American Library Association. Librarians working for the federal government are often required to have a master's degree in library or an equivalent in education and experience. Some may have additional degrees in a subject area (Kane, 75).  
      References 
      
       Davis, Susan (2007). "Electronic Periodicals Manager". A Day in the Life: Career Options in Library and Information Science. Libraries Unlimited. pp.&nbsp;148–157. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59158-364-6. 
       
        Kane, Laura Townsend (2003). Straight from the Stacks: A First Hand Guide to Careers in Library and Information Science. American Library Association. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8389-0865-5. 
       
        "Library Resources and Technical Services". Chicago, IL: Association for Library Collections and Technical Services, a division of the American Library Association. ISSN&nbsp;0024-2527. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       
        "Serials Librarian". Binghamton, NY: Haworth Press. ISSN&nbsp;0361-526X. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       
        Sutton, Sarah A. (2007). "Serials/Electronic Resources Librarian". A Day in the Life: Career Options in Library and Information Science. Libraries Unlimited. pp.&nbsp;103–107. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59158-364-6.
       
      External links 
      
       North American Serials Interest Group 
       UK Serials Group 
       Association for Library Collections and Technical Services, a division of American Library Association 
       Occupational Outlook Handbook: Librarian 
       ODLIS: Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Periodicals_librarian&amp;oldid=953072283"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library occupations
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 April 2020, at 15:45&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
