
 
  
   
  Teacher-librarian - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Teacher-librarian 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      A teacher-librarian or school librarian or school library media specialist (SLMS) is a certified librarian who also has training in teaching. 
      According to the American Association of School Librarians (AASL), a division of the American Library Association (ALA), the official title for a certified librarian who works in a school in the United States is school librarian. In Australia, the term is teacher librarian.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Roles 
        2 Certification 
          
          2.1 Australia 
          2.2 Nigeria 
          2.3 United States 
           
        3 Professional organizations 
        4 US legislation 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Roles 
      The school librarian performs four main leadership roles: teacher, instructional partner, information specialist, and program administrator. 
      School librarians may read to children, assist them in selecting books, and assist with schoolwork. Some school librarians see classes on a "flexible schedule". A flexible schedule means that rather than having students come to the library for instruction at a fixed time every week, the classroom teacher schedules library time when the expertise of the school librarian, library and information skills, or materials are needed as part of a learning experience. 
      In the instructional partner role, school librarians collaborate with classroom teachers to create independent learners by fostering students' research, information literacy, technology, communication, and critical thinking skills. School librarians play a major role in infusing Information Literacy concepts and skills into secondary school curricula as well as enhances implementation of Information Literacy knowledge practices and dispositions into the secondary school education system. 
      As information specialists, school librarians develop a resource base for the school by using the curriculum and student interests to identify and obtain library materials. They also organize and maintain the library collection in order to promote independent reading and lifelong learning. Materials in the library collection can be located using an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC). 
      This role also encompasses many activities relating to technology including the integration of resources in a variety of formats: periodical databases; Web sites; digital video segments; podcasts; blog and wiki content; digital images; virtual classrooms, etc. School librarians are often responsible for audio-visual equipment and other technology used in the classroom. In some schools, they are also tasked as the technology specialist. 
      As program administrators, school librarians define, lead, and manage school library media programs by establishing library policies; overseeing the library budget; planning the physical and virtual library space; and maintaining a welcoming, positive, and innovative learning atmosphere. Librarians also maintain the collection by adding items to enhance curriculum and entice readers in order to have good relationships with the patrons, both teachers and students. Many times, librarians are also responsible for repairing damaged books and periodicals.  
      Certification 
      
      
       See also: Education for librarianship
       
      Australia 
      There is a single pathway to becoming an accredited teacher librarian, eligible for associate membership of the Australian Library and Information Association. This is the Master of Education (Teacher Librarianship) course at Charles Sturt University, available for professionally-qualified teachers.   
      Nigeria 
      For someone to qualify as teacher-librarian in Nigeria you must possess any of the following:  
      
       Diploma in Library and Information Science in addition to teacher training certificate (NCE, B.Ed, M.Ed.) 
       Nigerian Certificate of Education(NCE), Library Science and other teaching subject 
       Bachelor of Education Library Science and other teaching subject 
       Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS) in addition to teacher training certificate (NCE, B.Ed, M.Ed.) 
       Masters of Library and Information Science (MLIS) in addition to teacher training certificate (NCE, B.Ed, M.Ed.)
       
      However, teachers with certificate of attendance of teacher-librarian workshop can be put in charge of the school library where there is no qualified teacher-librarian.  
      United States 
      In the United States, there is no national qualification for school librarians. Instead, each state sets its own requirements. In many states a teacher-librarian must have a baccalaureate degree and a certificate in secondary or elementary education, and must also complete a school library media program and gain state certification. Programs in library science vary between institutions; however, state requirements must be met before a library media specialist is allowed to teach. Some school library media specialists hold the full Master of Library Science (MLS) or Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) degree, while others do not. In many instances, school librarians who have an MLS degree but do not have the requisite teaching credentials must obtain these teaching credentials and classroom teaching experience first before they are permitted to work as teacher-librarians. Often additional library science graduate coursework is required, focused specifically on issues pertaining to school librarianship.  
      Professional organizations 
      Teacher-librarians rely on the support of local, state, national, and international professional organizations for career and professional development, employment opportunities, and awards/grants/funding. Groups like the International Association of School Librarianship; the American Association of School Librarians; the School Library Association in the United Kingdom and the Australian School Library Association host websites, publish journals, and sponsor conferences, workshops, and other events which showcase current research and practices in the field. 
      In the United States, teacher-librarians are also supported by state organizations which advocate for teachers at the district and school level. A comprehensive list is available from the ALA.  
      US legislation 
      In December 2015, school library programs fell under the benefits for the Every Student Succeeds Act, a law that opens the use of federal funding for school library programs.  
      See also 
      
       School library 
       fr:Professeur documentaliste (in French)
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Grigas, Vincas; Mierzecka, Anna; Fedosejevaitė, Roma. (2018). School Librarians' Attitudes Towards Teaching Information Literacy. In: Kurbanoğlu S., Boustany J., Špiranec S., Grassian E., Mizrachi D., Roy L. (eds). Information Literacy in the Workplace. ECIL 2017. Communications in Computer and Information Science, 810, 703-712. Springer, Cham.  
         ^ Sample job description  
         ^ "Teacher Librarians". Australian Library and Information Association. Retrieved 5 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Master of Education (Teacher Librarianship)". Study. 21 December 2020. Retrieved 5 March 2021.  
         ^ a b 
           Oyesiku, F. A. (2009). Teacher-librarian training: A necessity for effective library services in schools. Ibadan: BIB Press. pp.&nbsp;40–41. ISBN&nbsp;978-978-900-175-0.  
         ^ International Association of School Librarianship  
         ^ Australian School Library Association  
         ^ American Association for School Librarians (2008). AASL Affiliate Assembly Regions. Retrieved December 6, 2008.  
         ^ 
           "School Library Legislation". American Library Association. Document ID: 8349bb8c-1b2f-e474-3dc0-2e6b0a82053f. September 11, 2015. Retrieved April 2, 2018. (Members only resource)  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Teacher Librarian: The Journal for School Library Professionals
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Teacher-librarian&amp;oldid=1063921868"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Education and training occupations
       Library occupations
       Library science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from December 2017
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Articles with limited geographic scope from July 2018
       United States-centric
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Français
       한국어
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 5 January 2022, at 16:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
