
 
  
   
  Information access - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information access 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       Not to be confused with Access to Information.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Information science
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
           
           
            Access 
            Architecture 
            Behavior 
            Management 
            Retrieval 
            Seeking 
            Society 
            Knowledge organization 
            Ontology 
            Philosophy 
            Science and technology studies 
            Taxonomy
            
           
        
        
          Related fields and sub-fields
        
        
          
           
           
            Bibliometrics 
            Categorization 
            Censorship 
            Classification 
            Computer data storage 
            Cultural studies 
            Data modeling 
            Informatics 
            Information technology 
            Intellectual freedom 
            Intellectual property 
            Library and information science 
            Memory 
            Preservation 
            Privacy 
            Quantum information science
            
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Information access is the freedom or ability to identify, obtain and make use of database or information effectively. 
      There are various research efforts in information access for which the objective is to simplify and make it more effective for human users to access and further process large and unwieldy amounts of data and information. 
      Several technologies applicable to the general area are Information Retrieval, Text Mining, Machine Translation, and Text Categorisation. 
      During discussions on free access to information as well as on information policy, information access is understood as concerning the insurance of free and closed access to information. Information access covers many issues including copyright, open source, privacy, and security. 
      Groups such as the American Library Association, the American Association of Law Libraries, Ralph Nader's Taxpayers Assets Project have advocated for free access to legal information. The vendor neutral citation movement in the legal field is working to ensure that courts will accept citations from cases on the web which do not have the traditional (copyrighted) page numbers from the West Publishing company. There is a worldwide Free Access to Law Movement which advocates free access to legal information. The Wired Magazine Article Who Owns The Law is an introduction to the access to legal information issue. Postsecondary organizations such as K-12 work to share information. They feel it is a legal and moral obligation to provide access (including to people with disabilities or impairments) to information through the services and programs they offer. 
      Some effects of charging for information access, such as literature searches for physicians, is studied in the article "Fee or Free: The Effect of Charging on Information Demand". In this study, a $5 charge resulted in a 77% decrease in searches.  
      See also 
      
       Access to Knowledge movement 
       Free culture 
       Open access 
       Open content
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Information Access | Encyclopedia.com". www.encyclopedia.com. Retrieved 2020-05-25.  
         ^ 
           "How Technology Has Increased Our Access to Information and Answers - Not All of Them Right". www.mediapost.com. Retrieved 2020-10-23.  
         ^ 
           "Information Access | DO-IT". www.washington.edu. Retrieved 2017-10-13.  
         ^ 
           Huston, Mary M. (1979). "Fee or Free: The Effect of Charging on Information Demand". Library Journal. 104 (16): 1811–1814. 
            ERIC&nbsp;EJ209864 INIST:PASCAL8030420646.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       CRS Report - Access to Government Information in the United States 
       ALA- Access to Electronic Information, Services, and Networks 
       Access to Information - The World Bank page
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
          This technology-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_access&amp;oldid=1026133226"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Library science
       Technology stubs
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2010
       All stub articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tiếng Việt
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 May 2021, at 15:47&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
