
 
  
   
  Ground truth - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Ground truth 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Information provided by direct observation
       
      
      
       For the documentary, see The Ground Truth.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Ground truth"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (June 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Ground truth is information that is known to be real or true, provided by direct observation and measurement (i.e. empirical evidence) as opposed to information provided by inference.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 Statistics and machine learning 
        3 Remote sensing 
          
          3.1 Errors of commission 
          3.2 Errors of omission 
           
        4 Geographical information systems 
        5 Military usage 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Etymology 
      The Oxford English Dictionary (s.v. "ground truth") records the use of the word "Groundtruth" in the sense of a "fundamental truth" from Henry Ellison's poem "The Siberian Exile's Tale", published in 1833.  
      Statistics and machine learning 
      "Ground truth" may be seen as a conceptual term relative to the knowledge of the truth concerning a specific question. It is the ideal expected result. This is used in statistical models to prove or disprove research hypotheses. The term "ground truthing" refers to the process of gathering the proper objective (provable) data for this test. Compare with gold standard. For example, suppose we are testing a stereo vision system to see how well it can estimate 3D positions. The "ground truth" might be the positions given by a laser rangefinder which is known to be much more accurate than the camera system. 
      Bayesian spam filtering is a common example of supervised learning. In this system, the algorithm is manually taught the differences between spam and non-spam. This depends on the ground truth of the messages used to train the algorithm – inaccuracies in the ground truth will correlate to inaccuracies in the resulting spam/non-spam verdicts.  
      Remote sensing 
      In remote sensing, "ground truth" refers to information collected on location. Ground truth allows image data to be related to real features and materials on the ground. The collection of ground truth data enables calibration of remote-sensing data, and aids in the interpretation and analysis of what is being sensed. Examples include cartography, meteorology, analysis of aerial photographs, satellite imagery and other techniques in which data are gathered at a distance. 
      More specifically, ground truth may refer to a process in which a "pixel" on a satellite image is compared to what is there in reality (at the present time) in order to verify the contents of the "pixel" on the image (noting that the concept of a "pixel" is somewhat ill-defined). In the case of a classified image, it allows supervised classification to help determine the accuracy of the classification performed by the remote sensing software and therefore minimize errors in the classification such as errors of commission and errors of omission. 
      Ground truth is usually done on site, performing surface observations and measurements of various properties of the features of the ground resolution cells that are being studied on the remotely sensed digital image. It also involves taking geographic coordinates of the ground resolution cell with GPS technology and comparing those with the coordinates of the "pixel" being studied provided by the remote sensing software to understand and analyze the location errors and how it may affect a particular study. 
      Ground truth is important in the initial supervised classification of an image. When the identity and location of land cover types are known through a combination of field work, maps, and personal experience these areas are known as training sites. The spectral characteristics of these areas are used to train the remote sensing software using decision rules for classifying the rest of the image. These decision rules such as Maximum Likelihood Classification, Parallelepiped Classification, and Minimum Distance Classification offer different techniques to classify an image. Additional ground truth sites allow the remote sensor to establish an error matrix that validates the accuracy of the classification method used. Different classification methods may have different percentages of error for a given classification project. It is important that the remote sensor chooses a classification method that works best with the number of classifications used while providing the least amount of error. 
      Ground truth also helps with atmospheric correction. Since images from satellites obviously have to pass through the atmosphere, they can get distorted because of absorption in the atmosphere. So ground truth can help fully identify objects in satellite photos.  
      Errors of commission 
      An example of an error of commission is when a pixel reports the presence of a feature (such as trees) that, in reality, is absent (no trees are actually present). Ground truthing ensures that the error matrices have a higher accuracy percentage than would be the case if no pixels were ground-truthed. This value is the inverse of the user's accuracy, i.e. Commission Error = 1 - user's accuracy.  
      Errors of omission 
      An example of an error of omission is when pixels of a certain thing, for example, maple trees, are not classified as maple trees. The process of ground-truthing helps to ensure that the pixel is classified correctly and the error matrices are more accurate. This value is the inverse of the producer's accuracy, i.e. Omission Error = 1 - producer's accuracy  
      Geographical information systems 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The ground truth representations are the GIS elements (fields or objects), and each element is representing (by a cartographic process) a real world object.
        
       
       
      In GIS the spatial data is modeled as field (like in remote sensing raster images) or as object (like in vectorial map representation). They are modeled from the real world (also named geographical reality), typically by a cartographic process (illustrated). 
      Geographic information systems such as GIS, GPS, and GNSS, have become so widespread that the term "ground truth" has taken on special meaning in that context. If the location coordinates returned by a location method such as GPS are an estimate of a location, then the "ground truth" is the actual location on Earth. A smart phone might return a set of estimated location coordinates such as 43.87870,-103.45901. The ground truth being estimated by those coordinates is the tip of George Washington's nose on Mount Rushmore. The accuracy of the estimate is the maximum distance between the location coordinates and the ground truth. We could say in this case that the estimate accuracy is 10 meters, meaning that the point on earth represented by the location coordinates is thought to be within 10 meters of George's nose—the ground truth. In slang, the coordinates indicate where we think George Washington's nose is located, and the ground truth is where it really is. In practice a smart phone or hand-held GPS unit is routinely able to estimate the ground truth within 6–10 meters. Specialized instruments can reduce GPS measurement error to under a centimeter.  
      Military usage 
      US military slang uses "ground truth" to refer to the facts comprising a tactical situation—as opposed to intelligence reports, mission plans, and other descriptions reflecting the conative or policy-based projections of the industrial·military complex. The term appears in the title of the Iraq War documentary film The Ground Truth (2006), and also in military publications, for example Stars and Stripes saying: "Stripes decided to figure out what the ground truth was in Iraq."  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^  Ellison, Henry (1833). Mad moments, or first verse attempts by a born natural. p.&nbsp;362. Retrieved 2014-10-24. As the Groundtruth of her own Existence it must be regarded, thro' Him in its highest, purest Aspect shown!  
         ^ 
           Lemoigne, Yves; Caner, Alessandra (2006). Molecular Imaging: Computer Reconstruction and Practice.  
         ^ 
           Fisher, P (1997). "The Pixel: A Snare and a Delusion". International Journal of Remote Sensing. 18 (15): 679–685. Bibcode:1997IJRS...18..679F. doi:10.1080/014311697219015.  
         ^ Goodchild, M., "Geographical data modeling". Computers &amp; Geosciences, vol. 18, no.4, pp. 401-408, 1992.  
         ^  
           Pickles, John (1995). Ground Truth: The Social Implications of Geographical Information Systems. p.&nbsp;179.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Forestry Organization Remote Sensing Technology Project (includes an example of an error matrix)
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ground_truth&amp;oldid=1054377972"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Optical character recognition
       Artificial intelligence applications
       Applications of computer vision
       Automatic identification and data capture
       Computational linguistics
       Symbols
       Machine learning task
       Satellite meteorology
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from June 2015
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 November 2021, at 17:55&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
