
 
  
   
  Jacquard machine - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Jacquard machine 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Jacquard loom)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Control device attached to weaving looms
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         This portrait of Jacquard was woven in silk on a Jacquard loom and required 24,000 punched cards to create (1839). It was only produced to order. Charles Babbage owned one of these portraits; it inspired him in using perforated cards in his Analytical Engine. It is in the collection of the Science Museum in London, England.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A Jacquard loom showing information punchcards, National Museum of Scotland
        
       
       
      The Jacquard machine (French:&nbsp;) is a device fitted to a loom that simplifies the process of manufacturing textiles with such complex patterns as brocade, damask and matelassé. The resulting ensemble of the loom and Jacquard machine is then called a Jacquard loom. The machine was invented by Joseph Marie Jacquard in 1804, based on earlier inventions by the Frenchmen Basile Bouchon (1725), Jean Baptiste Falcon (1728), and Jacques Vaucanson (1740). The machine was controlled by a "chain of cards"; a number of punched cards laced together into a continuous sequence. Multiple rows of holes were punched on each card, with one complete card corresponding to one row of the design. 
      Both the Jacquard process and the necessary loom attachment are named after their inventor. This mechanism is probably one of the most important weaving innovations as Jacquard shedding made possible the automatic production of unlimited varieties of complex pattern weaving. The term "Jacquard" is not specific or limited to any particular loom, but rather refers to the added control mechanism that automates the patterning. The process can also be used for patterned knitwear and machine-knitted textiles, such as jerseys. 
      This use of replaceable punched cards to control a sequence of operations is considered an important step in the history of computing hardware, having inspired Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Principles of operation 
        3 Mechanical Jacquard devices 
        4 Electronic Jacquard machines 
        5 The woven silk prayer book 
        6 Importance in computing 
        7 Examples 
        8 See also 
        9 Notes 
        10 References 
        11 Sources 
        12 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Traditionally, figured designs were made on a drawloom. The heddles with warp ends to be pulled up were manually selected by a second operator, the draw boy, not the weaver. The work was slow and labour-intensive, and the complexity of the pattern was limited by practical factor. 
      The first prototype of a Jacquard-type loom was made in the second half of the 15th century by an Italian weaver from Calabria, Jean le Calabrais, who was invited to Lyon by Louis XI. He introduced a new kind of machine which was able to work the yarns faster and more precisely. Over the years, improvements to the loom were ongoing. 
      An improvement of the draw loom took place in 1725, when Basile Bouchon introduced the principle of applying a perforated band of paper. A continuous roll of paper was punched by hand, in sections, each of which represented one lash or tread, and the length of the roll was determined by the number of shots in each repeat of pattern. The Jacquard machine then evolved from this approach. 
      Joseph Marie Jacquard saw that a mechanism could be developed for the production of sophisticated patterns. He possibly combined mechanical elements of other inventors, but certainly innovated. His machine was generally similar to Vaucanson's arrangement, but he made use of Jean-Baptiste Falcon's individual pasteboard cards and his square prism (or card "cylinder"): he is credited with having fully perforated each of its four sides, replacing Vaucanson's perforated "barrel". Jacquard's machine contained eight rows of needles and uprights, where Vaucanson had a double row. This modification enabled him to increase the figuring capacity of the machine. In his first machine, he supported the harness by knotted cords, which he elevated by a single trap board. 
      One of the chief advantages claimed for the Jacquard machine was that unlike previous damask-weaving machines, in which the figuring shed was usually drawn once for every four shots, with the new apparatus, it could be drawn on every shot, thus producing a fabric with greater definition of outline. 
      Jacquard's invention had a deep influence on Charles Babbage. In that respect, he is viewed by some authors as a precursor of modern computing technology.  
       
      Principles of operation 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Jacquard diagram. The numbered components are as described in the text.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         19th century Engineering drawing of a Jacquard loom.
        
       
       
      On the diagram, the cards are fastened into a continuous chain (1) which passes over a square box. At each quarter rotation a new card is presented to the Jacquard head which represents one row (one "pick" of the shuttle carrying the weft). The box swings from the right to the position shown and presses against the control rods (2). Where there is a hole the rod passes through the card and is unmoved whereas if the hole is not punched the rod is pushed to the left. Each rod acts upon a hook (3). When the rod is pushed in, the hook moves out of position to the left, a rod that is not pushed in leaves its hook in place. A beam (4) then rises under the hooks and those hooks in the rest location are raised; the hooks that have been displaced are not moved by the beam. Each hook can have multiple cords (5). The cords pass through a guide(6) and are attached to their heddle (7) and a return weight (8). The heddles raise the warp to create the shed through which the shuttle carrying the weft will pass. A loom with a 400 hook head might have four threads connected to each hook, resulting in a fabric that is 1600 warp ends wide with four repeats of the weave going across. 
      The term "Jacquard loom" is somewhat inaccurate. It is the "Jacquard head" that adapts to a great many dobby looms that allow the weaving machine to then create the intricate patterns often seen in Jacquard weaving. 
      Jacquard-driven looms, although relatively common in the textile industry, are not as ubiquitous as dobby looms which are usually faster and much cheaper to operate. However, dobby looms are not capable of producing so many different weaves from one warp. Modern jacquard machines are controlled by computers in place of the original punched cards, and can have thousands of hooks. 
      The threading of a Jacquard machine is so labor-intensive that many looms are threaded only once. Subsequent warps are then tied into the existing warp with the help of a knotting robot which ties each new thread on individually. Even for a small loom with only a few thousand warp ends the process of re-threading can take days.  
      Mechanical Jacquard devices 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Punched cards in use in a Jacquard loom.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A punch for Jacquard cards
        
       
       
      Originally the Jacquard machines were mechanical, and the fabric design was stored in a series of punched cards which were joined to form a continuous chain. The Jacquards often were small and only independently controlled a relatively few warp ends. This required a number of repeats across the loom width. Larger capacity machines, or the use of multiple machines, allowed greater control, with fewer repeats, and hence larger designs could be woven across the loom width. 
      A factory must choose looms and shedding mechanisms to suit its commercial requirements. As a rule the more warp control required the greater the expense. So it is not economical to purchase Jacquard machines if one can make do with a dobby mechanism. As well as the capital expense, the Jacquard machines are more costly to maintain, as they are complex and require higher skilled personnel; an expensive design system is required to prepare the designs for the loom, and possibly a card-cutting machine. Weaving is more costly since Jacquard mechanisms are more likely to produce faults than dobby or cam shedding. Also, the looms will not run as quickly and down-time will increase because it takes time to change the continuous chain of cards when a design changes. For these reasons it is best to weave larger batches with mechanical Jacquards.  
      Electronic Jacquard machines 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Jacquard machine"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (October 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      It is recorded that in 1855, a Frenchman adapted the Jacquard mechanism to a system by which it could be worked by electro-magnets. There was significant interest, but trials were not successful, and the development was soon forgotten. 
      Bonas Textile Machinery NV launched the first successful electronic Jacquard at ITMA Milan in 1983. Although the machines were initially small, modern technology has allowed Jacquard machine capacity to increase significantly, and single end warp control can extend to more than 10,000 warp ends. That avoids the need for repeats and symmetrical designs and allows almost infinite versatility. The computer-controlled machines significantly reduce the down time associated with changing punched paper designs, thus allowing smaller batch sizes. However, electronic Jacquards are costly and may not be required in a factory weaving large batch sizes, and smaller designs. The larger machines allowing single end warp control are very expensive, and can only be justified where great versatility is required, or very specialized design requirements need to be met. For example, they are an ideal tool to increase the ability and stretch the versatility of the niche linen Jacquard weavers who remain active in Europe and the West, while most of the large batch commodity weaving has moved to low cost areas. 
      Linen products associated with Jacquard weaving are linen damask napery, Jacquard apparel fabrics and damask bed linen. Jacquard weaving uses all sorts of fibers and blends of fibers, and it is used in the production of fabrics for many end uses. Jacquard weaving can also be used to create fabrics that have a Matelassé or a brocade pattern. Research is under way to develop layered and shaped items as reinforcing components for structures made from composite materials.  
      The woven silk prayer book 
      A pinnacle of production using a Jacquard machine is a prayer book, woven in silk. The book's title is Livre de Prières. Tissé d'après les enluminures des manuscrits du XIVe au XVIe siècle. All 58 pages of the prayer book were made of silk, woven using a Jacquard machine, using black and gray thread. The pages have elaborate borders with text and pictures of saints. It is estimated that 200,000 to 500,000 punch cards were necessary to encode the pages, at 160 threads per cm (400 threads per inch). 
      It was issued in 1886 and 1887, in Lyon, France. It was publicly displayed at the 1889 Exposition Universelle (World's Fair). It was designed by R.P.J. Hervier, woven by J.A. Henry and published by A. Roux. It took 2 years and almost 50 trials to get correct. An estimated 50 or 60 copies were produced.  
      Importance in computing 
      The Jacquard head used replaceable punched cards to control a sequence of operations. It is considered an important step in the history of computing hardware. The ability to change the pattern of the loom's weave by simply changing cards was an important conceptual precursor to the development of computer programming and data entry. Charles Babbage knew of Jacquard machines and planned to use cards to store programs in his Analytical Engine. In the late 19th century, Herman Hollerith took the idea of using punched cards to store information a step further when he created a punched card tabulating machine which he used to input data for the 1890 U.S. Census. A large data processing industry using punched-card technology was developed in the first half of the twentieth century—dominated initially by the International Business Machine corporation (IBM), with its line of unit record equipment. The cards were used for data, however, with programming done by plugboards. 
      Some early computers, such as the 1944 IBM Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator (Harvard Mark I) received program instructions from a paper tape punched with holes, similar to Jacquard's string of cards. Later computers executed programs from higher-speed memory, though cards were commonly used to load the programs into memory. Punched cards remained in use in computing up until the mid-1980s.  
       
      Examples 
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Austrian Jacquard handloom, end of 19th century, National Museum of textile Industry, Sliven, Bulgaria  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Close-up view of comber board, harness, mails, weights (Lingoes) and warp with 1040 ends  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Punched cards in use in a Jacquard loom. German Museum of Technology, Berlin  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Weaving shuttle on a jacquard sample  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Punched card loom mechanism in silk-weaving workshop; Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Weaver in a silk-weaving workshop; Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Close-up view of the 8 × 26 hole punched cards—one card per pick (weft) in the fabric  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Jacquard looms in the Textile Department of the Strzemiński Academy of Fine Arts in Łódź, Poland.  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Weaving on a jacquard loom with a flying shuttle at the Textile Department of the Strzemiński Academy of Fine Arts in Łódź, Poland.  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Following the pattern, holes are punched in the appropriate places on a jacquard card at the Department of Textile Art at Strzemiński Academy of Fine Arts in Łódź, Poland.  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Detail of Dove and Rose jacquard-woven silk and wool double cloth furnishing textile, designed by William Morris  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Punched paper tape used to instruct the 1944 Harvard Mark I computer  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Detail of Jaquard loom at TextielMuseum Tilburg  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Four Hattersley looms with the distinctive Jacquard head  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carpet loom with Jacquard apparatus by Carl Engel, around 1860.  
          
         
       
      See also 
      
       Thomas Ferguson &amp; Co Ltd, Jacquard weaver
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ According to its operators (CEMATEX, Le Comité Européen des Constructeurs de Machines Textiles, an organisation comprising 9 national European textile machinery associations) ITMA is "the world’s largest international textile and garment technology exhibition".  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Hyman, Anthony, ed. Science and Reform: Selected Works of Charles Babbage, Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1989, p. 298.  
         ^ Delve (2007), p. 99.  
         ^ "Fabric Glossary". Archived from the original on January 5, 2009. Retrieved 2008-11-21.  
         ^ Eric Hobsbawm, "The Age of Revolution", (London 1962; repr. 2008), p.45.  
         ^ C. Razy p.120 (1913)  
         ^ 
           Newton, William (June 1, 1866). "The London journal of arts and sciences (and repertory of patent inventions)": 334. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Parrillo Chapman, Lisa (2008). Textile Design Engineering Within the Product Shape. pp.&nbsp;69–70. ISBN&nbsp;978-1109003987.  
         ^ 
           Rubino, Angela (2006). La seta a Catanzaro e Lione. Echi lontani e attività presente  (in Italian). Calabria Letteraria. ISBN&nbsp;8875741271.  
         ^ 
           "Métiers à tisser, Conservatoire des Vieux Métier du Textile". Retrieved 4 May 2021.  
         ^ 
           "A Brief History of Figured Textile Production" (PDF). Retrieved 29 March 2021.  
         ^ Bradbury, Fred (1912). Jacquard Mechanisms and Harness Mounting. John Heywood Ltd., Technical Book Depot, Halifax, Yorks.  
         ^ Essinger, James (2004). Jacquard's web. Oxford University Press, Oxford. 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-280578-2  
         ^ The Irish Linen Trade Hand-Book and Directory  
         ^ 
           "Bonas Textile Machinery NV - About Us". bonas.be. Retrieved 8 October 2020.  
         ^ 
           "About ITMA". Cematex.com. Retrieved 8 October 2020.  
         ^ 
           Panneerselvam, R G (16 Jul 2020). "Use of indigenous electronic jacquard in handloom for weaving fashionable silk sarees". Dogo Rangsang Research Journal. 10: 84 – via UGC Care Group.  
         ^ 
           "Jacquard Fabric — What Is a Jacquard? - Sailrite". www.sailrite.com. Retrieved 2020-09-16.  
         ^ 
           "At Walters Art Museum, a 19th-century prayer book connected to computer pioneers". Baltimore Sun. Retrieved 11 February 2019.  
         ^ 
           "A Prayerbook Entirely Woven by the Jacquard Loom: The First Book Produced by a Program or Digitally Produced Book?". Jeremy Norman's HistoryOfInformation.com. Retrieved 11 February 2019.  
         ^ 
           J A Henry, R P J Hervier. Livre de Prières. Tissé d'après les enluminures des manuscrits du XIVe au XVIe siècle. A Roux, (Printer); J Kauffmann, (Bookbinder). OCLC&nbsp;948879235. Manufacture of the volume employed the Jacquard method (Joseph-Marie Jacquard, 1752-1834) of using punch cards which J.A. Henry first used with Les laboureurs. Poème tiré de Jocelyn. Reproduit en caractères tissés avec license des propriétaires éditeurs (by Alphonse de Lamartine) in 1883. That earlier title is the true "first book 'printed' by computer". Over a two-year period, 50-60 copies of Livre de prières were produced. According to book historian Michael Laird, several hundred thousand cards (estimated between 106,000 and 500,000) were required.}: CS1 maint: others (link) CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)  
         ^ 
           Essinger, James (2004). Jacquard's Web: How a hand-loom led to the birth of the information age. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-19-280577-0.  
        
       
       
      Sources 
      
       
        Nelson, Hector William (1909). Jacquard machines; instruction paper. Chicago: American School of Correspondence. 
       
        Posselt, Emanuel Anthony (1887). The Jacquard machine analyzed and explained: with an appendix on the preparation of Jacquard cards. Philadelphia: Pennsylvania museum and school of industrial art. 
       
        Posselt, Emanuel Anthony (1893). The Jacquard Machine Analyzed &amp; Explained. The preparation of Jacquard cards and practical hints to learners of Jacquard designing. Philadelphia: Philadelphia, Posselt. 
       
        Razy, C. (1913). Étude analytique des petits modèles de métiers exposés au musée des tissus. Lyon, France: Musée historique des tissus.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Jacquard looms and Jacquard weave.
         
       
       
      
       Posselt, Emanuel A. (1892) The Jacquard machine analyzed and explained: the preparation of Jacquard cards and practical hints to learners of Jacquard designing – digital facsimile from the Linda Hall Library 
       CEMATEX, European Committee of Textile Machinery Manufacturers (and owners of the ITMA exhibition).
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Weaving
           
         
         
          Weaves
          
            
            
             Basketweave 
             Charvet 
             Coverlet 
             Dobby 
             Double weave 
             Even-weave 
             Lampas 
             Leno weave 
             Oxford 
             Pile weave 
             Piqué 
             Plain weave 
             Satin 
             Shot 
             Twill 
             Gabardine
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Components
          
            
            
             Textiles 
             Warp and weft 
             Yarn
             
           
         
         
          Tools and techniques
          
            
            
             Barber-Colman knotter 
             Beamer 
             Chilkat weaving 
             Fingerweaving 
             Flying shuttle 
             Heddle 
             Ikat 
             Inkle weaving 
             Kasuri 
             Loom 
             Navajo weaving 
             Pibiones 
              Reed 
             Salish weaving 
             Shed 
             Shuttle 
             Sizing 
              
               Sizing machine
               
             Tablet weaving 
             Tāniko 
             Tapestry 
             Temple
             
           
         
         
          Types of looms
          
            
            
             Air-jet loom 
             Dandy loom 
             Dobby loom 
             Hattersley loom 
             Horrocks loom 
             Jacquard loom 
             Lancashire loom 
             Northrop loom 
             Power loom 
             Rapier loom 
             Roberts loom 
             Warp-weighted loom
             
           
         
         
          Weavers
          
            
            
             Acesas 
             Anni Albers 
             Otti Berger 
             Micheline Beauchemin 
             Johanna Brunsson 
             Ada Dietz 
             Thomas Ferguson &amp; Co Ltd 
             Elisabeth Forsell 
             Dorothy Liebes 
             Ethel Mairet 
             Maria Elisabet Öberg 
             Lilly Reich 
             Margaretha Reichardt 
             John Rylands 
             Brigitta Scherzenfeldt 
             Clara Sherman 
             Gunta Stölzl 
             Judocus de Vos 
             Margaretha Zetterberg
             
           
         
         
          Employment practices
          
            
            
             More looms 
             Kissing the shuttle 
             Piece-rate list
             
           
         
         
          Mills
          
            
            
             Bancroft Shed 
             Queen Street Mill
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jacquard_machine&amp;oldid=1067425082"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Weaving
       Textile machinery
       History of technology
       Weaving equipment
       1804 introductions
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles containing French-language text
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty
       CS1 Italian-language sources (it)
       CS1 maint: others
       CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from January 2020
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Articles needing additional references from October 2020
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2020
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from October 2020
       Wikipedia articles in need of updating from October 2020
       All Wikipedia articles in need of updating
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       Français
       Հայերեն
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       ລາວ
       Lietuvių
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Polski
       Русский
       Simple English
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 23 January 2022, at 11:39&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
