
 
  
   
  Hans Peter Luhn - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Hans Peter Luhn 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       German-American computer scientist
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Hans Peter Luhn
          
        
        
         Born
         (1896-07-01)1 July 1896
          
           Barmen, German Empire
          
        
        
         Died
         19 August 1964(1964-08-19) (aged&nbsp;68)
          
           Armonk, New York, U.S.
          
        
        
         Nationality
         German
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         KWIC
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer science
        
        
         Institutions
         IBM
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Hans Peter Luhn (July 1, 1896 – August 19, 1964) was a researcher in the field of computer science and Library &amp; Information Science for IBM, and creator of the Luhn algorithm, KWIC (Key Words In Context) indexing, and Selective dissemination of information ("SDI"). His inventions have found applications in diverse areas like computer science, the textile industry, linguistics, and information science. He was awarded over 80 patents.  
      Life 
      Luhn was born in Barmen, Germany (now part of Wuppertal) on July 1, 1896. After he completed secondary school, Luhn moved to Switzerland to learn the printing trade so he could join the family business. His career in printing was halted by his service as a communications officer in the German Army during World War I. After the war, Luhn entered the textile field, which eventually led him to the United States, where he invented a thread-counting gauge (the Lunometer) still on the market. From the late twenties to the early forties, during which time he obtained patents for a broad range of inventions, Luhn worked in textiles and as an independent engineering consultant. He joined IBM as a senior research engineer in 1941, and soon became manager of the information retrieval research division. 
      His introduction to the field of documentation/information science came in 1947 when he was asked to work on a problem brought to IBM by James Perry and Malcolm Dyson that involved searching for chemical compounds recorded in coded form. He came up with a solution for that and other problems using punched cards, but often had to overcome the limitations of the available machines by coming up with new ways of using them. By the dawn of the computer age in the 1950s, software became the means to surmount the limitations inherent in the punched card machines of the past. 
      Luhn spent greater and greater amounts of time on the problems of information retrieval and storage faced by libraries and documentation centers, and pioneered the use of data processing equipment in resolving these problems. "Luhn was the first, or among the first, to work out many of the basic techniques now commonplace in information science." These techniques included full-text processing; hash codes; Key Word in Context indexing (see also Herbert Marvin Ohlman); auto-indexing; automatic abstracting and the concept of selective dissemination of information (SDI). 
      Luhn was a pioneer in hash coding. In 1953, he suggested putting information into buckets in order to speed up search. He did not only consider handling numbers more efficiently. He was applying his concepts to text as well. Luhn’s methods were improved by computer scientists decades after his inventions. Today, hashing algorithms are essential for many applications such as textual tools, cloud services, data-intensive research and cryptography among numerous other uses. It is surprising that his name and contributions to information handling are largely forgotten. 
      Two of Luhn's greatest achievements are the idea for an SDI system and the KWIC method of indexing. Today's SDI systems owe a great deal to a 1958 paper by Luhn, "A Business Intelligence System", which described an "automatic method to provide current awareness services to scientists and engineers" who needed help to cope with the rapid post-war growth of scientific and technical literature. Luhn apparently coined the term business intelligence in that paper.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "HANS PETER LUHN, MENTOR, 68, DIES; Data‐Processing Specialist Served I.B.M. 20 Years". New York Times. 20 August 1964. p.&nbsp;29. Retrieved 16 December 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Lunometer - Home".  
         ^ Schultz, Claire K. H.P. Luhn: Pioneer of Information Science. Spartan Books, 1968, p. 6.  
         ^ Hallam Stevens: Hans Peter Luhn and the Birth of the Hashing Algorithm. In: IEEE Spectrum, 30 January 2018, pp. 42-47, retrieved February 14, 2018  
         ^ Hans Peter Luhn (1960). Keyword-in-context index for technical literature. American Documentation, 11(4):288–295. 
           ISSN&nbsp;0002-8231. (American Documentation is the former name of the Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 
           ISSN&nbsp;1532-2882)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). www.research.ibm.com. Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 September 2008. Retrieved 12 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ BI at 50 Turns Back to the Future  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Class Lecture Notes: H. P. Luhn and Automatic Indexing (dead link) 
       Award of Merit 
       THE CHRONOLOGY OF CHEMICAL INFORMATION SCIENCE 1950 - PRESENT, Archived from the original. 
       Works by or about Hans Peter Luhn in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Australia 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hans_Peter_Luhn&amp;oldid=1065926545"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1896 births
       1964 deaths
       IBM employees
       German emigrants to the United States
       Scientists from Wuppertal
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using infobox scientist with unknown parameters
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       Français
       Norsk bokmål
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 16 January 2022, at 00:39&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
