
 
  
   
  Cyril Cleverdon - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Cyril Cleverdon 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Cyril W. Cleverdon)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       British librarian and computer scientist
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Cyril Cleverdon
          
        
        
         Born
         (1914-09-09)9 September 1914
          
           Bristol, UK
          
        
        
         Died
         4 December 1997(1997-12-04) (aged&nbsp;83)
          
           Cranfield, UK
          
        
        
         Nationality
         British
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         work on the evaluation of information retrieval systems
        
        
         Awards
         Professional Award of the Special Libraries Association (1962), Award of Merit of the American Society for Information Science (1971), The Gerard Salton Award of the Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval of the Association for Computing Machinery (1991)
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer Science
        
        
         Institutions
         Cranfield Institute of Technology
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Cyril Cleverdon (9 September 1914 – 4 December 1997) was a British librarian and computer scientist who is best known for his work on the evaluation of information retrieval systems. 
      Cyril Cleverdon was born in Bristol, England. He worked at the Bristol Libraries from 1932 to 1938, and from 1938 to 1946 he was the librarian of the Engine Division of the Bristol Aeroplane Co. Ltd. In 1946 he was appointed librarian of the College of Aeronautics at Cranfield (later the Cranfield Institute of Technology and Cranfield University), where he served until his retirement in 1979, the last two years as professor of Information Transfer Studies. 
      With the help of National Science Foundation funding, Cleverdon started a series of projects in 1957 that lasted for about 10 years in which he and his colleagues set the stage for information retrieval research. In the Cranfield project, retrieval experiments were conducted on test databases in a controlled, laboratory-like setting. The aim of the research was to improve the retrieval effectiveness of information retrieval systems, by developing better indexing languages and methods. The components of the experiments were:  
      
       a collection of documents, 
       a set of user requests or queries, and 
       a set of relevance judgments—that is, a set of documents judged to be relevant to each query.
       
      Together, these components form an information retrieval test collection. The test collection serves as a standard for testing retrieval approaches, and the success of each approach is measured in terms of two measures: precision and recall. Test collections and evaluation measures based on precision and recall are driving forces behind modern research on search systems. Cleverdon's approach formed a blueprint for the successful Text Retrieval Conference series that began in 1992. 
      Not only did Cleverdon's Cranfield studies introduce experimental research into computer science, the outcomes of the project also established the basis of the automatic indexing as done in today's search engines. Essentially, Cleverdon found that the use of single terms from the documents achieved the best retrieval performance, as opposed to manually assigned thesaurus terms, synonyms, etc. These results were very controversial at the time. In the Cranfield 2 Report, Cleverdon said: 
      This conclusion is so controversial and so unexpected that it is bound to throw considerable doubt on the methods which have been used (...) A complete recheck has failed to reveal any discrepancies (...) there is no other course except to attempt to explain the results which seem to offend against every canon on which we were trained as librarians. 
      Cyril Cleverdon also ran, for many years, the Cranfield conferences, which provided a major international forum for discussion of ideas and research in information retrieval. This function was taken over by the SIGIR conferences in the 1970s.  
      References 
      
       Cyril Cleverdon (1962). "Report on the Testing and Analysis of an Investigation into the Comparative Efficiency of Indexing Systems". The College of Aeronautics, Cranfield. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       
        Cyril Cleverdon and Michael Keen (1966). "Factors Determining the Performance of Indexing Systems, Volume 2" (PDF). The College of Aeronautics, Cranfield. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       Stephen Robertson, In Memoriam Cyril W. Cleverdon, Journal of the American Society for Information Science 49(10):866, 1998
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat (via VIAF)
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Czech Republic 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyril_Cleverdon&amp;oldid=1066238990"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1914 births
       1997 deaths
       British computer scientists
       English librarians
       People associated with Cranfield University
       Scientists from Bristol
       Information retrieval researchers
       People from Cranfield
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from April 2018
       Use British English from April 2018
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using infobox scientist with unknown parameters
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with WorldCat-VIAF identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 17 January 2022, at 11:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
