
 
  
   
  Robert M. Hayes (information scientist) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Robert M. Hayes (information scientist) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American mathematician
       
      
      
       For other people named Robert Hayes, see Robert Hayes (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Robert M. Hayes
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
          (1926-12-03) December 3, 1926 (age&nbsp;95)
          
           New York City, United States
          
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         UCLA
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Work on information systems and information economy
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Information science
        
        
         Institutions
         UCLA
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Robert M. Hayes (born 1926) is Professor Emeritus and former dean of the Graduate School of Library and Information Science (1974-1989), now the Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). An expert on information systems, Hayes began his academic career in mathematics and went on to become a pioneer in the field of information science.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life and education 
        2 Career 
        3 Publications 
        4 External links 
        5 References 
        
       
      Early life and education 
      Robert M. Hayes was born on 3 December 1926 in New York City. During his childhood his family moved frequently because of his stepfather's acting career; as a result he attended over sixteen different high schools before receiving his diploma. By that time the United States had entered the Second World War. He was drafted into the Navy, and gained acceptance into the Navy's V-12 program, in the context of which he took courses at the University of Colorado Boulder. 
      After the War, Hayes completed his B.A. in mathematics at UCLA, in 1946; he went on to earn his M.A. in mathematics there in 1949, and his Ph.D. in 1952. While completing his Ph.D., he worked in information science at the National Bureau of Standards.  
      Career 
      Upon receiving his Ph.D. in 1952, Hayes decided to move into industry, and found a position at Hughes Aircraft, where he programmed a computer to fly an airplane. At that time he also taught in UCLA's university-extension program. In 1954, he began working at the National Cash Register Company, and a year later he moved to Magnavox Research Laboratories. His work at Magnavox was related to important developments in information storage and retrieval, such as the Minicard and the Magnacard systems. Eager to share his knowledge in the field with students, he subsequently went into teaching; in the 1950s to 1960s he held teaching positions at American University, the University of Washington, and the University of Illinois, as well as Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 
      In 1958, Hayes was hired as a vice president of Electrada Corporation, where, together with John A. Postley, he created Advanced Information Systems as a subsidiary of Electrada. 
      At the 1962 Seattle World's Fair ("Century 21 Exposition") Hayes led the training program in library automation for the professional staff of the American Library Association (ALA) exhibit, "Library 21", which aimed to introduce online retrieval to the general public. 
      He and Joseph Becker co-authored Information Storage and Retrieval (1963), the most comprehensive text in the field at the time. He also partnered with Becker in 1969 to found Becker and Hayes Incorporated, for the purpose of creating an interlibrary network for the State of Washington, a goal that they eventually accomplished. 
      A lecturer in mathematics at UCLA since 1952, Hayes became a full-time professor there in 1964. Around that time he played a role in the formation of the School of Library Service and the Institute for Library Research. 
      Hayes was president of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, formerly known as the American Documentation Institute, in 1962/1963, and president of the Information Science and Automation Division of the ALA (later known as the Library and Information Technology Association, or LITA), in 1969–1970. 
      At UCLA he served as dean of the Graduate School of Library and Information Science from 1974 to 1989, and became professor emeritus in 1991. 
      From 1987 through the 2000s, Hayes was a visiting professor at a variety of institutions internationally, including Nankai University, Tianjin, China; the University of Library and Information Science, Tsukuba Science City, Japan; Keio University, Tokyo; Khazar University, Baku, Azerbaijan; the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia; , Osijek, Croatia; Loughborough University, England; and the University of Graz, Austria. 
      His research as of 2009 focused on the role of libraries in national information economies, and the philosophical foundations of information science.  
      Publications 
      
       Hayes, Robert M. Models for Library Management, Decision-Making, and Planning. San Diego: Academic Press, 2001 
       Hayes, Robert M. Strategic Management for Academic Libraries. Westport, CO: Greenwood Press, 1993 
       Hayes, Robert M. Libraries and the Information Economy of California. Los Angeles: UCLA, 1985 
       Hayes, Robert M. and Becker, Joseph. Handbook of Data Processing for Libraries. New York: Becker and Hayes, 1970 (2nd edition, Wiley, 1974). Winner of Best Information Science Book Award, from ASIS&amp;T, 1971 
       Becker, Joseph and Hayes, Robert M. Information Storage and Retrieval: Tools, Elements, Theories. New York: John Wiley, 1963
       
      External links 
      
       "Robert Hayes, Professor Emeritus", faculty page at UCLA Department of Education&nbsp;&amp; Information Studies 
       Transcript of oral history interview with Robert Hayes, conducted by Sarah Buchanan, on August&nbsp;5, 2010. Los Angeles Chapter of ASIS&amp;T 
       Center for Oral History. "Robert M. Hayes". Science History Institute. 
       
        Burke, Colin B. (26 February 2001). Robert M. Hayes, Transcript of an Interview Conducted by Colin B. Burke at Los Angeles, California on 26 February 2001 (PDF). Philadelphia, PA: Chemical Heritage Foundation.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c d "Robert M. Hayes" biographical page (April&nbsp;14, 1999), in "Index of Information Science Pioneers", Pioneers of Information Science in North America: A Project of SIG/HFIS (History and Foundations of Information Science), American Society of Information Scientists (ASIS). Website hosted by the University of South Carolina. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ 
           Center for Oral History. "Robert M. Hayes". Science History Institute.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i j k 
           Burke, Colin B. (26 February 2001). Robert M. Hayes, Transcript of an Interview Conducted by Colin B. Burke at Los Angeles, California on 26 February 2001 (PDF). Philadelphia, PA: Chemical Heritage Foundation.  
         ^ "Robert Hayes" . UCLA Graduate School of Education&nbsp;&amp; Information Studies. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ a b c d e "Brief Biography of Robert M. Hayes", in 2009 faculty page. Graduate School of Education&nbsp;&amp; Information Studies, University of California, Los Angeles. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ Bourne, Charles P.; Hahn, Trudi Bellardo (2003). A History of Online Information Services, 1963-1976. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0262025388. p.&nbsp;49, 52.  
         ^ "Past Presidents". Association for Information Science and Technology. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ "LITA Presidents". Library and Information Technology Association (LITA), division of the American Library Association. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ Hayes, Robert M. (2009). "Robert M. Hayes, Professor Emeritus" . Graduate School of Education&nbsp;&amp; Information Studies, University of California, Los Angeles. Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
         ^ "Best Information Science Book Award: Past Winners". Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&amp;T). Retrieved 2016-11-25.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Israel 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Sweden
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Robert_M._Hayes_(information_scientist)&amp;oldid=1069930596"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1926 births
       20th-century American mathematicians
       Information systems researchers
       Living people
       Writers from New York City
       UCLA Graduate School of Education and Information Studies faculty
       University of California, Los Angeles alumni
       Mathematicians from New York (state)
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using infobox scientist with unknown parameters
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       تۆرکجه
       Català
       Español
       مصرى
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 4 February 2022, at 20:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
