
 
  
   
  Classification of the sciences (Peirce) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Classification of the sciences (Peirce) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Charles Sanders Peirce
        
        
          
          
           Bibliography
           
        
        
          Philosophical
        
        
          
          
           Categories (Peirce) 
           Existential graph 
           Peirce's law 
           Peirce's semiotic theory 
           Pragmatic maxim 
           Pragmaticism 
           Fallibilism 
           Synechism 
           Tychism 
           Phaneron 
           Classification of the sciences
           
        
        
          Biographical
        
        
          
          
           Juliette Peirce 
           Charles Santiago Sanders Peirce
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      The philosopher Charles Sanders Peirce (1839–1914) did considerable work over a period of years on the classification of sciences (including mathematics). His classifications are of interest both as a map for navigating his philosophy and as an accomplished polymath's survey of research in his time. Peirce himself was well grounded and produced work in many research fields, including logic, mathematics, statistics, philosophy, spectroscopy, gravimetry, geodesy, chemistry, and experimental psychology.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Classifications 
          
          1.1 Taxa 
          1.2 Sciences 
            
            1.2.1 Logic's divisions later 
             
           
        2 Notes 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Classifications 
      Philosophers have done little work on classification of the sciences and mathematics since Peirce's time. Noting Peirce's "important" contribution, Denmark's Birger Hjørland commented: "There is not today (2005), to my knowledge, any organized research program about the classification of the sciences in any discipline or in any country". As Miksa (1998) writes, the "interest for this question largely died in the beginning of the 20th century". It is not clear whether Hjørland includes the classification of mathematics in that characterization.  
      Taxa 
      In 1902 and 1903 Peirce elaborates classifications of the sciences in:  
      
       "A Detailed Classification of the Sciences" in Minute Logic (Feb.–Apr. 1902), Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce (CP) v. 1, paragraphs 203–283 
       July 1902 application to the Carnegie institution (MS L75) 
       "An Outline Classification of the Sciences (CP 1.180-202) in his "A Syllabus of Certain Topics in Logic" (1903), wherein his classifications of the sciences take more or less their final form
       
      However, only in the "Detailed Classification" and the Carnegie application does he discuss the taxa which he used, which were inspired by the biological taxa of Louis Agassiz.  
       
       
        Taxa of scientific departments 
        
       
         
         Name 
         Characterization ("A Detailed Classification of the Sciences", Feb.-Apr. 1902) 
         Characterization(Carnegie application, July 1902) 
         Examples(1902 examples are the Carnegie application) 
         
         
         Branch&nbsp;of science  
         Branches differ in fundamental purposes.  
         Throughout a branch, there is one same animating motive (though researchers in a branch's different classes seem to live in different worlds).  
         Peirce's three branches (1903): Science of Discovery. Science of Review. Practical Science. 
         
         
         Class&nbsp;of science  
         Classes differ radically in observation. Observations in one class (say physical &amp; psychological sciences) cannot yield the kind of information which another class (say pure mathematics) requires of observation.  
         Throughout a class, researchers feel that they inquire into the same great subject (as kinds of inquiry differ but interconnect).  
         Peirce's three classes of discovery science: Pure mathematics. Cenoscopic philosophy. The special sciences. 
         
         
         Order&nbsp;of science  
         Two orders within one class or subclass may differ hierarchically, one more general, the other more specialized.  
         Throughout an order, researchers pursue the same general kind of inquiry (but deal with different kinds of conceptions).  
         Peirce's 1902 example of various orders: General Physics. Biology. Geology. 
         
         
         Family&nbsp;of science  
         Has special name, journal, society. Studies one group of facts. Researchers understand one another in a general way and naturally associate together.  
         Throughout a family, researchers have the same general conceptions (but differ in skills).  
         Peirce's 1902 example of various families: Astronomy. Geognosy. 
         
         
         Genus&nbsp;of science  
         "I can give no such definitions of genera and species, not having carried my classification of the sciences to these minutiae" (of definitions of taxa; he does use the genus taxon).  
         Throughout the genus, researchers have the same skills (but differ in acquaintance with facts in detail).  
         Peirce's 1902 example of various genera: Optics. Electrics. 
         
         
         Species&nbsp;of science  
         The species is the narrowest division still having societies and journals, each researcher is thoroughly well qualified in all parts of it.  
         Peirce's 1902 example of various species: Entomology. Ichthyology. 
         
         
         Variety&nbsp;of science  
         Researchers devote lives to a variety of science, but not so numerously as to support distinct societies and journals.  
         Peirce's 1902 example of various varieties: Study of Kant. Study of Spinoza. 
        
       
       
      Sciences 
      In 1902, he divided science into Theoretical and Practical. Theoretical Science consisted of Science of Discovery and Science of Review, the latter of which he also called "Synthetic Philosophy", a name taken from the title of the vast work, written over many years, by Herbert Spencer. Then, in 1903, he made it a three-way division: Science of Discovery, Science of Review, and Practical Science. In 1903 he characterized Science of Review as:  
      
       ...arranging the results of discovery, beginning with digests, and going on to endeavor to form a philosophy of science. Such is the nature of Humboldt's Cosmos, of Comte's Philosophie positive, and of Spencer's Synthetic Philosophy. The classification of the sciences belongs to this department.
       
      Peirce had already for a while divided the Sciences of Discovery into:  
      
       
        (1) Mathematics – draws necessary conclusions about hypothetical objects
        
       
        (2) Cenoscopy – philosophy about positive phenomena in general, such as confront a person at every waking moment, rather than special classes, and not settling theoretical issues by special experiences or experiments
        
       
        (3) Idioscopy – the special sciences, about special classes of positive phenomena, and settling theoretical issues by special experiences or experiments
       
       
      Thus Peirce ends up framing two fields each of which is philosophy in a sense: cenoscopic philosophy which precedes the special sciences, and synthetic philosophy (that is to say, science of review), which does take advantage of the results of all the sciences of discovery and develops, for instance, classifications of the sciences. 
      Peirce opens his 1903 classification (the "Syllabus" classification) with a concise statement of method and purpose:  
      
       This classification, which aims to base itself on the principal affinities of the objects classified, is concerned not with all possible sciences, nor with so many branches of knowledge, but with sciences in their present condition, as so many businesses of groups of living men. It borrows its idea from Comte's classification; namely, the idea that one science depends upon another for fundamental principles, but does not furnish such principles to that other. It turns out that in most cases the divisions are trichotomic; the First of the three members relating to universal elements or laws, the Second arranging classes of forms and seeking to bring them under universal laws, the Third going into the utmost detail, describing individual phenomena and endeavoring to explain them. But not all the divisions are of this character....
       
      The following table is based mostly on Peirce's 1903 classification, which was more or less the final form. But see after the table for discussion of his later remarks on the divisions of logic.  
       
       
        Classification of the Sciences of Discovery 
        
       
         
         Classes 
         Subclasses 
         Orders  
         Other Taxa (suborders, families, etc.) 
         
         
         I. Mathematics.  The scientific study of hypotheses which it first frames and then traces to their consequences.  
         A. Mathematics of Logic. 
         
         
         B. Mathematics of Discrete Series. 
         
         
         C. Mathematics of Continua and Pseudocontinua. (Note: By "continuum" Peirce meant, until 1908, a continuum of instants (as he called them) beyond any Cantorian aleph's worth. He held that such a continuum was the true subject matter of that which we now call topology, and that the reals, the complex reals, etc., constituted pseudocontinua.) 
         
         
         II. Cenoscopy, or Philosophy.  (Philosophia Prima, First Philosophy.)  About positive phenomena in general, such as are available to every person at every waking moment, and not about special classes of phenomena. Does not resort to special experiences or experiments in order to settle theoretical questions.  
         Epistêmy (1902 classification only).  
         A. Phenomenology (or Categorics or Phaneroscopy). (Includes the study of the cenopythagorean categories: Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness). 
         
         
         B. Normative Science.  
         i. Esthetics. (Study of the good, the admirable. Peirce reserved the spelling "aesthetics" for the study of artistic beauty.) 
         
         
         ii. Ethics. (Study of right and wrong). 
         
         
         iii. Logic (or Semiotic or Formal Semiotic). (Study of true and false.) (The presuppositions of reason are the locus of Peirce's truth theory and his fallibilism.)   
         1. Speculative Grammar (or Philosophical or Universal Grammar) (or Stechiology) (Includes the classification of signs). 
         
         
         2. Critic (or Logical Critic, Critical Logic, or Logic Proper). (Includes study of the modes of inference: abduction, induction, and deduction). 
         
         
         3. Methodeutic (or Speculative Rhetoric, or Universal or Philosophical Rhetoric). (Is the locus of Peirce's Pragmatism, and includes study of scientific method). 
         
         
         C. Metaphysics.  
         i. Ontology or General. (Locus of Peirce's Scholastic Realism.) 
         
         
         ii. Psychical or Religious.  
         1. God. 
         
         
         2. freedom (&amp; destiny). 
         
         
         3. immortality. 
         
         
         iii. Physical. (Locus of Peirce's Objective Idealism and his doctrines that physical space, time, and law are continuous, and that chance, mechanical necessity, and creative love are physically real and involve corresponding modes of universal evolution.) 
         
         
         Theôric (1902 classification only). Peirce: "... only resort to special observation to settle some minute details, concerning which the testimony of general experience is possibly insufficient."  
         Chronotheory &amp; Topotheory (1902 only) 
         
         
         III. Idioscopy, or the Special Sciences.  About special classes of positive phenomena. Resorts to special experience or experiments in order to settle theoretical questions.  
         . Physical.  
         i. Nomological or General.  
         i. Molar Physics.  
         Dynamics &amp; Gravitation. 
         
         
         ii. Molecular Physics.  
         Elaterics (elasticity, expansibility) &amp; Thermodynamics. 
         
         
         iii. Ethereal Physics.  
         Optics &amp; Electrics. 
         
         
         ii. Classificatory. Peirce in the 1903 Syllabus classification: "Classificatory physics seems, at present, as a matter of fact, to be divided, quite irrationally and most unequally, into i, Crystallography; ii, Chemistry; iii, Biology."  
         i. Crystallography 
         
         
         ii. Chemistry.  
         1. Physical. 2. Organic. 
          
           
            Aliphatic &amp; Aromatic.
           
           3. Inorganic (elements, atomic weights, compounds, periodicity, etc.)  
         
         
         iii. Biology.  
         1. Physiology. 2. Anatomy. 
         
         
         iii. Descriptive.  
         Geognosy &amp; Astronomy. 
         
         
         . Psychical.  
         i. Nomological Psychics, or Psychology.  
         i. Introspectional. ii. Experimental. iii. Physiological. iv. Child. 
         
         
         ii. Classificatory Psychics, or Ethnology.  
         1. Special Psychology.  
         1. Individual Psychology. 2. Psychical Heredity. 3. Abnormal Psychology. 4. Mob Psychology. 5. Race Psychology. 6. Animal Psychology. 
         
         
         2. Linguistics.  
         1. Word Linguistics. 2. Grammar ("should be a comparative science of forms of composition") 
         
         
         3. Ethnology.  
         1. Ethnology of Social Developments, customs, laws, religion, and tradition. 2. Ethnology of Technology. 
         
         
         iii. Descriptive Psychics, or History.  
         1. History proper. 
         
         
         2. Biography ("which at present is rather a mass of lies than a science") 
         
         
         3. Criticism  
         1. Literary criticism 2. Art criticism (criticism of military operations, criticism of architecture, etc.) 
        
       
       
      Logic's divisions later 
      In a piece which the Collected Papers editors called "Phaneroscopy" and dated as 1906, Peirce wrote (CP 4.9):  
      
      
       ...I extend logic to embrace all the necessary principles of semeiotic, and I recognize a logic of icons, and a logic of indices, as well as a logic of symbols; and in this last I recognize three divisions: Stecheotic (or stoicheiology), which I formerly called Speculative Grammar; Critic, which I formerly called Logic; and Methodeutic, which I formerly called Speculative Rhetoric
       
      Thus the three main 1903 departments of logic were now sub-departments of the study of the logic of symbols. 
      In a letter to J. H. Kehler, printed in The New Elements of Mathematics v.3, p.&nbsp;207 and dated 1911, Peirce wrote:  
      
      
       I have now sketched my doctrine of Logical Critic, skipping a good deal. I recognize two other parts of Logic. One which may be called Analytic examines the nature of thought, not psychologically but simply to define what it is to doubt, to believe, to learn, etc., and then to base critic on these definitions is my real method, though in this letter I have taken the third branch of logic, Methodeutic, which shows how to conduct an inquiry. This is what the greater part of my life has been devoted to, though I base it upon Critic.
       
       
       
        Peirce's revisions of logic's divisions 
        
       
         
         Peirce in 1902, 1903: Logic (begins on general level with presuppositions of reason, logical conception of mind, nature of belief &amp; doubt, etc.).A. Stechiology &nbsp; (classes of signs &amp; &nbsp; their combinations). B. Critic &nbsp; (modes of argument). C. Methodeutic &nbsp; (methods of inquiry). 
         Peirce in 1906: Logic. A. Logic of icons. B. Logic of indices. C. Logic of symbols. &nbsp; C1. Stechiotic. &nbsp; C2. Critic. &nbsp; C3. Methodeutic. 
         Peirce in 1911: Logic. A. Analytic &nbsp; (what it is to doubt, &nbsp; to believe, to learn). B. Critic. C. Methodeutic. 
        
       
       
      There in 1911 Peirce does not mention the 1906 division into logics of icons, indices and symbols. Critic and Methodeutic appear, as in 1902 and 1903, as the second and third main departments of logic. Analytic is now the first department and the word "Stechiology" goes unused. He includes in Analytic the consideration of issues which, back in his 1902 Carnegie Institute application, he had discussed in sections on logic with headings such as "Presuppositions of Logic" and "On the Logical Conception of Mind" that he had placed before the sections on logic's departments (stechiology, critic, and methodeutic). 
      On the question of the relationship between Stechiology and the Analytic that seems to have replaced it, note that, in Draft D of Memoir 15 in his 1902 Carnegie Institute application, Peirce said that stechiology, also called grammatica speculativa, amounts to an Erkenntnisslehre, a theory of cognition, provided that that theory is stripped of matter irrelevant and inadmissible in philosophical logic, irrelevant matter such as all truths (for example, the association of ideas) established by psychologists, insofar as the special science of psychology depends on logic, not vice versa. In that same Carnegie Institute application as in many other places, Peirce treated belief and doubt as issues of philosophical logic apart from psychology.  
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ See "Development of Peirce's classification of sciences - three stages: 1889, 1898, 1903" by Tommi Vehkavaara, 2003, "Eprint" (PDF).&nbsp;(19.4&nbsp;KiB) and "The outline of Peirce's classification of sciences (1902-1911)" by Tommi Vehkavaara, 2001, 
          "Eprint" (PDF).&nbsp;(11.4&nbsp;KiB)  
        ^ Burch, Robert (2001, 2009), "Charles Sanders Peirce", Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Eprint. Also see Peirce's own list published 1906 in the entry "Peirce, C(harles) S" in v. 2, p. 248, American Men of Science, J. McKern Cattell, ed.  
        ^ Professor in knowledge organization, library science. See faculty profile page.  
        ^ See Hjørland's comments here.  
        ^ Eprint  
        ^ Arisbe Eprint  
        ^ Eprint and Eprint  
        ^ CP 1.229-230, (from the "Minute Logic", 1902), Eprint  
        ^ a b Collected Papers, v. 1, paragraph 238, 1902, Eprint  
        ^ Manuscript L75.351-353, (in the "final draft" = actually submitted version of the Carnegie Application) July 1902, Eprint  
        ^ Peirce (1902), Manuscript L75.355, Application to the Carnegie Institute, Arisbe Eprint  
        ^ Peirce (1903), CP 1.181, Eprint  
        ^ Peirce (1903), CP 1.182 Eprint  
        ^ a b Peirce borrows the terms "cenoscopy" and "idioscopy" from Jeremy Bentham. See Peirce: (1902) CP 1.239-241; (1903) CP 1.183-187; (c. 1903) CP 6.6; and (1905) CP 8.199.  
        ^ The Collected Peirce (CP), v. 1, paragraph 180 Eprint  
        ^ See "Peirce's Clarifications of Continuity" by Jérôme Havenel, Transactions Winter 2008 pp. 68-133. From p. 119: "It is on May 26, 1908, that Peirce finally gave up his idea that in every continuum there is room for whatever collection of any multitude. From now on, there are different kinds of continua, which have different properties."  
        ^ Peirce, C.S., "Analysis of the Methods of Mathematical Demonstration", Memoir 4, Draft C, Manuscript L75.90-102, see 99-100, Eprint  
        ^ a b CP 1.278 Eprint  
        ^ Compare with obsolete sense 1 in the 1911 Century Dictionary definition of elater:
          
           1.† Elasticity; especially the expansibility of a gas.It may be said that the swelling, of the compressed water in the pewter vessel lately mentioned, and the springing up of the water at the hole made by the needle, were not the effects of an internal elater of the water, but of the spring of the many little particles of air dispersed through that water. Boyle, Spring of the Air, Exp. xxii.
            
        ^ The CP 1.194 Eprint  
        ^ CP 1.200 (from "An Outline Classification of the Sciences" 1903) Eprint  
        ^ CP 1.201 (from "An Outline Classification of the Sciences" 1903) Eprint.  
        ^ A fuller version of the quote is at Commens Dictionary of Peirce's Terms under Stecheotic, Stoicheiology.  
        ^ It can be viewed at the Commens Dictionary of Peirce's Terms under Analytic.  
        ^ Memoir 10. Eprint.  
        ^ Memoir 11. Eprint.  
        ^ Memoir 13. Eprint.  
        ^ Eprint.  
       
       
      References 
      
       Peirce, C.S., 1902, "An Outline Classification of the Sciences", The Collected Papers, vol. 1, pp.&nbsp;203–283 (1902) Eprint, from projected book Minute Logic. 
       Peirce, C.S., 1902, "On the Classification of the Theoretic Sciences of Research", Manuscript L75.350-357, Arisbe Eprint, from "Logic, Considered As Semeiotic", Manuscript L75, with draft sections labeled and interpolated into the final (submitted July 1902) version of the 1902 Carnegie Institute application, Joseph Ransdell, ed., Arisbe Eprint. 
       Peirce, C.S., 1903, "A Detailed Classification of the Sciences", The Collected Papers, vol. 1, pp.&nbsp;180–202 (1903) Eprint and Eprint, from "A Syllabus Of Certain Topics In Logic", the Essential Peirce, vol. 2, pp.&nbsp;258–330. 
       Vehkavaara, Tommi, 2001, "The outline of Peirce's classification of sciences (1902-1911)", 
        "Eprint" (PDF).&nbsp;(11.4&nbsp;KiB). 
       Vehkavaara, Tommi, 2003, "Development of Peirce's classification of sciences - three stages: 1889, 1898, 1903", 
        "Eprint" (PDF).&nbsp;(19.4&nbsp;KiB).
       
      External links 
      
       Arisbe: The Peirce Gateway, Joseph Ransdell, ed. 
       The Commens Dictionary of Peirce's Terms, Mats Bergman &amp; Sami Paavola, eds. 
       C.S. Peirce’s: Architectonic Philosophy, Albert Atkin, 2004, 2005, the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Speziali, Pierre (1973). "Classification of the Sciences". In Wiener, Philip P (ed.). Dictionary of the History of Ideas. ISBN&nbsp;0-684-13293-1. Retrieved 2009-12-02. 
       Classification (of the sciences) (once there, scroll down) by Professor A. C. Armstrong, Jr. (Wesleyan University) in the Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology, James Mark Baldwin, ed., 1901–1905. 
       Peirce's first classification of sciences (1889); Peirce's classification of theoretical sciences and arts (1898); Peirce's outline classification of sciences (1903). Compiled by Tommi Vehkavaara, 2003. 
       Midtgarden, Torjus. 2020. “Peirce's Classification of the Sciences”. Knowledge Organization 47, no. 3: 267-278 Here from the online version in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, eds. Birger Hjørland and Claudio Gnoli.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Classification_of_the_sciences_(Peirce)&amp;oldid=1038882263"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Philosophy of science
       Charles Sanders Peirce
       Scientific classification
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from May 2016
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016
       All articles with unidentified words
       Articles with unidentified words from November 2019
       Articles containing Latin-language text
       Articles containing German-language text
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 15 August 2021, at 10:15&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
