
 
  
   
  Case Western Reserve University - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Case Western Reserve University 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Private university in Cleveland, Ohio
       
      
      
       
        Case Western Reserve University
       
       
        
         
        
        
         
          
           Former names
          
         Western Reserve College (1826–1882)Western Reserve University (1882–1967)Case School of Applied Science (1880–1947)Case Institute of Technology (1947–1967)
        
        
         Motto
         Historical:  Christo et Ecclesiae (1827-1885)  Lux (1885-1932)
        
        
         
          
           Motto in&nbsp;English
          
         "For Christ and the Church" (1827-1885)"Light" (1885-1932)
        
        
         Type
         Private research university
        
        
         Established
         1826; 196&nbsp;years ago&nbsp;(1826)
        
        
         Accreditation
         HLC
        
        
         
          
           Academic affiliations
          
         
          
           
            AAU
            AITU
            URA
            NACAC
            Space-grant
           
          
        
        
         Endowment
         $2.35 billion (2021)
        
        
         President
         Eric Kaler
        
        
         
          
           Academic staff
          
         3,501 full-time
        
        
         
          
           Administrative staff
          
         3,098
        
        
         Students
         11,824
        
        
         Undergraduates
         5,150
        
        
         Postgraduates
         6,674
        
        
         Location
         
          
           Cleveland
          , 
          
           Ohio
          , 
          
           United States
          41°30′14″N 81°36′29″W﻿ / ﻿41.504°N 81.608°W﻿ / 41.504; -81.608Coordinates: 
            41°30′14″N 81°36′29″W﻿ / ﻿41.504°N 81.608°W﻿ / 41.504; -81.608
        
        
         Campus
         Large City, 155 acres (0.63&nbsp;km2)
        
        
         Newspaper
         The Observer
        
        
         Colors
         &nbsp; CWRU Blue
          &nbsp; CWRU Grey
          &nbsp; Black
        
        
         Nickname
         Spartans
        
        
         
          
           Sporting affiliations
          
         
          
           
            NCAA Division III - UAA
            PAC (football)
           
          
        
        
         Mascot
         Spartie
        
        
         Website
         www.case.edu
        
        
         
        
       
       
      Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) is a private research university in Cleveland, Ohio. Case Western Reserve was established in 1967, when Western Reserve University, founded in 1826 and named for its location in the Connecticut Western Reserve, and Case Institute of Technology, founded in 1880 through the endowment of Leonard Case, Jr., formally federated. Case Western Reserve joined the Association of American Universities in 1969. 
      Case Western Reserve undergraduate and graduate schools include the College of Arts and Sciences, Case School of Engineering, Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, Case Medical School, Weatherhead School of Management, Case School of Dental Medicine, School of Law, and Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing. Its main campus is approximately 5 miles (8&nbsp;km) east of Downtown Cleveland in the neighborhood known as University Circle, an area containing many educational, medical, and cultural institutions. Case Western Reserve has a number of programs taught in conjunction with other University Circle institutions, including the Cleveland Clinic, the University Hospitals of Cleveland, the Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veteran's Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Hearing &amp; Speech Center, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Institute of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and the Cleveland Play House. Severance Hall, home of the Cleveland Orchestra, is on the Case Western Reserve campus. 
      Seventeen Nobel laureates have been affiliated with Case Western Reserve's faculty and alumni or one of its two predecessors.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Western Reserve College (1826–1882) and University (1882–1967) 
          1.2 Case School of Applied Science (1880–1947) and Institute of Technology (1947–1967) 
          1.3 Federation of two universities 
          1.4 Case Western Reserve University (1967–present) 
          1.5 Presidents 
           
        2 Campus 
          
          2.1 Case Quad 
          2.2 Mather Quad 
          2.3 North Residential Village 
          2.4 Triangle Towers 
          2.5 The Village at 115 
          2.6 Stephanie Tubbs Jones Residence Hall 
          2.7 South Residential Village 
          2.8 Transportation 
           
        3 Academics 
          
          3.1 Rankings 
          3.2 Undergraduate profile 
          3.3 Schools and programs 
          3.4 Naming controversy 
           
        4 Research 
          
          4.1 Electrochemistry 
          4.2 Sears think 
           
        5 Student life 
          
          5.1 Music 
          5.2 Computing 
          5.3 Housing 
          5.4 Greek life 
          5.5 Safety and security 
            
            5.5.1 Office of Emergency Management 
            5.5.2 Police and security services 
             
          5.6 Traditions 
           
        6 Athletics 
        7 Notable people 
          
          7.1 Nobel laureates 
           
        8 See also 
        9 References 
        10 Further reading 
        11 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Western Reserve College (1826–1882) and University (1882–1967) 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         John J.R. Macleod, 1923 Nobel Prize winner, with F. G. Banting, for co-discovering Insulin and Western Reserve University Professor of Physiology.
        
       
       
      Western Reserve College, the college of the Connecticut Western Reserve, was founded in 1826 in Hudson, Ohio, as the Western Reserve College and Preparatory School. Western Reserve College, or "Reserve" as it was popularly called, was the first college in northern Ohio. The school was called "Yale of the West"; its campus, now that of the Western Reserve Academy, imitated that of Yale. It had the same motto, "Lux et Veritas" (Light and Truth), the same entrance standards, and almost the same curriculum. 
      The vision its founders had of Western Reserve College was that it would instill in students an "evangelical ethos", and produce ministers to remedy the acute shortage of them in Ohio. Liberal arts and sciences were important, but secondary. The college was located in Hudson because the town made the largest financial offer (to help in its construction).: 422  
      The town of Hudson, about 30 miles southeast of Cleveland, was a quiet antislavery center from the beginning: its founder, David Hudson, was against slavery, and founding trustee Owen Brown was a noted abolitionist who secured the location for the college. The abolitionist John Brown, who would lead the 1859 raid on Harpers Ferry, grew up in Hudson and was the son of co-founder Owen Brown. Hudson was a major stop on the Underground Railroad. 
      Along with Presbyterian influences of its founding, the school's origins were strongly though briefly associated with the pre-Civil War abolitionist movement; the immediate abolition of slavery, instead of "colonizing" Africa with freed Blacks, was the dominant topic on campus in 1831, to the point that President Green complained nothing else was being discussed. The trustees were unhappy with the situation. The college's chaplain and sacred literature (Bible) professor, Beriah Green, gave four sermons on the topic, and then resigned, expecting that he would be fired. President Charles Backus Storrs took a leave of absence for health, and soon died. One of the two remaining professors, Elizur Wright, soon left to head the American Anti-Slavery Society. The center of American abolitionism, along with support from the well-to-do Tappan brothers, moved with Green to the Oneida Institute near Utica, New York, then, after a student walk-out, to Lane Seminary near Cincinnati, and finally, after a second mass student walkout, to Oberlin Collegiate Institute, later Oberlin College. "Oberlin's student body was the beneficiary of anti-abolitionist censure from other regional colleges, especially the Western Reserve College in nearby Hudson. Students flocked to Oberlin so that they could openly debate the antislavery issue without the threat of punishment or dismissal." 
      Western Reserve was the first college west of the Appalachian Mountains to enroll (1832) and graduate (1836) an African-American student, John Sykes Fayette. Frederick Douglass gave the commencement speech in 1854. 
      In 1838, the Loomis Observatory was built by astronomer Elias Loomis, and today remains the second oldest observatory in the United States, and the oldest still in its original location. 
      In 1852, the Medical School became the second medical? school in the United States to graduate a woman, Nancy Talbot Clark. Five more women graduated over the next four years, including Emily Blackwell and Marie Zakrzewska, giving Western Reserve the distinction of graduating six of the first eight female physicians in the United States. 
      By 1875, Cleveland had emerged as the dominant population and business center of the area, and the city wanted a prominent higher education institution. In 1882, with funding from Amasa Stone, Western Reserve College moved to Cleveland and changed its name to Adelbert College of Western Reserve University. Adelbert was the name of Stone's son.  
      Case School of Applied Science (1880–1947) and Institute of Technology (1947–1967) 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Case alumnus Herbert Henry Dow, founder of Dow Chemical.
        
       
       
      In 1877, Leonard Case Jr. began laying the groundwork for the Case School of Applied Science by secretly donating valuable pieces of Cleveland real estate to a trust. He asked his confidential advisor, Henry Gilbert Abbey, to administer the trust and to keep it secret until after his death in 1880. 
      On March 29, 1880, articles of incorporation were filed for the founding of the Case School of Applied Science. Classes began on September 15, 1881. The school received its charter by the state of Ohio in 1882. 
      For the first four years of the school's existence, it was located in the Case family's home on Rockwell Street in downtown Cleveland. Classes were held in the family house, while the chemistry and physics laboratories were on the second floor of the barn. Amasa Stone's gift to relocate Western Reserve College to Cleveland also included a provision for the purchase of land in the University Circle area, adjacent to Western Reserve University, for the Case School of Applied Science. The school relocated to University Circle in 1885. 
      In 1921 Albert Einstein came to Case campus during his first visit to the United States, out of respect of the physics work performed on campus. Besides noting the research done in the Michelson–Morley experiment, Einstein also met with Physics professor Dayton Miller to discuss his own research. 
      During World War II, Case School of Applied Science was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission. 
      Over time, the Case School of Applied Science expanded to encompass broader subjects, adopting the name Case Institute of Technology in 1947 to reflect the institution's growth. 
      Led by polymer expert Eric Baer in 1963, the nation's first stand-alone Polymer Science and Engineering program was founded, to eventually become the Department of Macromolecular Science and Engineering.  
      Federation of two universities 
      Although the trustees of Case Institute of Technology and Western Reserve University did not formally federate their institutions until 1967, the institutions already shared buildings and staff when necessary and worked together often. One such example was seen in 1887, when Case physicist Albert Michelson and Reserve chemist Edward Morley collaborated on the famous Michelson–Morley experiment. 
      There had been some discussion of a merger of the two institutions as early as 1890, but those talks dissolved quickly. In the 1920s, the Survey Commission on Higher Education in Cleveland took a strong stand in favor of federation and the community was behind the idea as well, but in the end all that came of the study was a decision by the two institutions to cooperate in founding Cleveland College, a special unit for part-time and adult students in downtown Cleveland. 
      By the 1960s, Reserve President John Schoff Millis and Case President T. Keith Glennan shared the idea that federation would create a complete university, one better able to attain national distinction. Financed by the Carnegie Corporation, Cleveland Foundation, Greater Cleveland Associated Foundation, and several local donors, a study commission of national leaders in higher education and public policy was charged with exploring the idea of federation. The Heald Commission, so known for its chair, former Ford Foundation President Henry T. Heald, issued its final report, "Vision of a University." The report predicted that a federation could create one of the largest private universities in the nation.  
      Case Western Reserve University (1967–present) 
      In 1967, Case Institute of Technology, a school with its emphasis on engineering and science, and Western Reserve University, a school with professional programs and liberal arts, came together to form Case Western Reserve University. 
      In 1968, the Department of Biomedical Engineering launched as a newly unified collaboration between the School of Engineering and School of Medicine as the first in the nation and as one of the first Biomedical Engineering programs in the world. The following year in 1969, the first Biomedical Engineering MD/PhD program in the world began at Case Western Reserve. 
      The first computer engineering degree program in the United States was established in 1971 at Case Western Reserve. 
      The "Forward Thinking" campaign was launched in 2011 by President Barbara Snyder to fundraise $1 billion, the largest in school history. The goal was reached in 2014 after 30 months. The board of trustees unanimously agreed to expand the campaign to $1.5 billion, which reached its mark a few years later in 2017. The campaign ultimately raised $1.82 billion. 
      The first 2020 United States presidential debate was held at the Samson Pavilion of the Health Education Campus (HEC), shared by the Cleveland Clinic. 
      In February 2020, president Barbara Snyder was appointed the president of Association of American Universities (AAU). Later that year, former Tulane University president Scott Cowen was appointed interim president. On October 29, 2020, Eric W. Kaler, former University of Minnesota president, was appointed as the new Case Western Reserve University president, effective July 1, 2021.  
      Presidents 
      
      
       See also: List of Presidents of Case Western Reserve University
       
       
       
         
         President  
         From  
         Until 
         
         
         Robert W. Morse  
         1967  
         1970 
         
         
         Louis A. Toepfer  
         1970  
         1980 
         
         
         David V. Ragone  
         1980  
         1987 
         
         
         Agnar Pytte  
         1987  
         1999 
         
         
         David H. Auston  
         1999  
         2001 
         
         
         James W. Wagner (interim)  
         2001  
         2002 
         
         
         Edward M. Hundert  
         2002  
         2006 
         
         
         Gregory L. Eastwood (interim)  
         2006  
         2007 
         
         
         Barbara R. Snyder  
         2007  
         2020 
         
         
         Scott S. Cowen (interim)  
         2020  
         2021 
         
         
         Eric W. Kaler  
         2021  
         Present 
        
       
       
      Campus 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         John D. Rockefeller Physics Building. Framed notes are displayed of Albert Einstein's May 1921 visit to campus meeting with Prof. Dayton C. Miller.
        
       
       
      The university is approximately 5 miles (8&nbsp;km) east of downtown Cleveland. The campus comprises a large portion of University Circle, a park-like city neighborhood and commercial center, home to many educational, medical, and other cultural institutions, including the historic Wade Park District. Case Western Reserve has a number of programs taught in conjunction with neighboring institutions, including the Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Institute of Art, the Cleveland Hearing &amp; Speech Center, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, the Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland Botanical Garden, and the Cleveland Play House.  
      Case Quad 
      The Case Quadrangle, known also to students as the Engineering Quad, is located south of Euclid Avenue between Adelbert Road and Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. Most engineering and science buildings are located on this quad, notably the John D. Rockefeller Physics Building. The Case Quad also houses administration buildings, including Adelbert Hall. The famous Michelson–Morley experiment occurred here, where a historical marker and the Michelson-Morley Memorial Fountain stand as commemoration. Other notable campus buildings include the Strosacker Auditorium and Nord Hall. The southernmost edge consists of athletic areas—Adelbert Gymnasium, Van Horn Field and the Veale Convocation, Recreation and Athletic Center (commonly referred to as the Veale Center). The Veale Center houses the Horsburgh Gymnasium and the Veale Natatorium.  
      Mather Quad 
      
      
       See also: Flora Stone Mather College Historic District
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Haydn Hall on the campus of Case Western Reserve University (Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle) in Cleveland.
        
       
       
      The Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle, known to students as the Mather Quad, is home to many humanities and social sciences subjects. The quad is located north of Euclid Avenue between East Blvd., East 115th Street, and Juniper Road. The Flora Stone Mather College Historic District is more strictly defined by the area between East Blvd, Bellflower Road, and Ford Road north of Euclid Avenue. Named for the philanthropist wife of prominent industrialist Samuel Mather and sister-in-law of the famous statesman John Hay, the Mather Quad is home to Weatherhead School of Management, School of Law, Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, and many departments of the College of Arts and Sciences. The Kelvin Smith Library, Thwing Center, and Tinkham Veale Student Center (known also as "The Tink") sit on the western edge of the Mather Quad and are often considered the center of campus.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Kelvin Smith Library
        
       
       
      North Residential Village 
      Situated on the northeast end of campus, the North Residential Village (NRV) is home to all Case Western Reserve's first-year students and many second-year students residing on campus. Constructed in the 1960s, the NRV consists of 12 4-floor buildings, an 11-floor building, Leutner (a dining hall), and a building containing the NRV area office and rehearsal space for Case Western Reserve's music department.  
      Triangle Towers 
      Triangle Towers are buildings located within Uptown that house both current students and staff and are also available for rent to the public. There are two towers, Tower 1 and Tower 2. Both overlook Uptown shops like Michell's Ice Cream and ABC Tavern.  
      The Village at 115 
      Located between East 115th Street and East 118th Street, the Village at 115 opened in the fall of 2005 for upper-class students. The Village consists of seven houses that surround DiSanto Field and the Bill Sudeck Track. Village housing is apartment style, with apartments that house one to nine people (excluding eight person units). The apartments are fully furnished. The Village is also LEED Gold certified. Houses 1-4 &amp; 6-7 are certified silver while house 5 is certified gold.  
      Stephanie Tubbs Jones Residence Hall 
      The Stephanie Tubbs Jones Residence Hall is located the north side of campus along East 115th Street before Wade Park Avenue. The hall is for upperclassman and is LEED Gold certified. As of 2019, the building is the newest residential hall on campus and consists of 5 floors along with 106 apartments. In addition to the apartments, the building also contains 8 townhouse-like residential units.  
      South Residential Village 
      Located between Murray Hill, Cedar, Edgehill, and Overlook roads, the South Residential Village (SRV) is home to most of Case Western Reserve's sophomore class. SRV is divided into two sections: Murray Hill Complex and Carlton Road Complex (known to students as bottom of the hill and top of the hill, respectively, due to the hill separating the two complexes). Carlton Road Complex includes three sophomore-only dormitories and several Greek life houses. Murray Hill Complex includes four sophomore only buildings and Fribley, the SRV dining hall. It also includes five Greek Houses.  
      Transportation 
      On and near campus, CircleLink serves as the free public shuttle service for residents, employees and visitors in University Circle and Little Italy with routes running every 20–30 minutes during service hours. Colloquially, the shuttle buses are known as Greenies. To supplement evening and nighttime hours, the Safe Ride Program provides personal pickup of students and staff upon request. 
      For city public transit, rail and bus access are managed by the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA). RTA passes of unlimited use are provided to undergraduate and full-time graduate students. The two Red Line rapid train stations are Little Italy–University Circle and Cedar–University. Notably, the Red Line connects campus to Cleveland Hopkins Airport and Downtown Cleveland. The bus rapid transit (BRT) HealthLine runs down the center of campus along Euclid Ave. Numerous RTA bus routes run through campus. 
      Case Western Reserve parking is managed by Standard Parking, and includes a network over 50 surface lots and 15 parking structures. Pay-by-phone parking is an available option for meters throughout campus.  
      Academics 
      Rankings 
       
       
         
         Academic rankings 
         
         
         National 
         
         
         ARWU  
         42–56 
         
         
         Forbes  
         116 
         
         
         THE/WSJ  
         48 
         
         
         U.S. News &amp; World Report  
         42 
         
         
         Washington Monthly  
         155 
         
         
         Global 
         
         
         ARWU  
         101–150 
         
         
         QS  
         162 
         
         
         THE  
         121 
         
         
         U.S. News &amp; World Report  
         144 
         
       
       
      In U.S. News &amp; World Report's 2021 rankings, Case Western Reserve was ranked as tied for 42nd among national universities and 155th among global universities. The 2020 edition of The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (WSJ/THE) rankings ranked Case Western Reserve as 52nd among US colleges and universities. 
      In 2018, Case Western Reserve was ranked 37th in the category American "national universities" and 146th in the category "global universities" by U.S. News &amp; World Report. In 2019 U.S. News ranked it tied for 42nd and 152nd, respectively. Case Western Reserve was also ranked 32nd among U.S. universities—and 29th among private institutions—in the inaugural 2016 edition of The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (WSJ/THE) rankings, but ranked tied for 39th among U.S. universities in 2019. 
      Case Western Reserve is noted (among other fields) for research in electrochemistry and electrochemical engineering. The Michelson–Morley interferometer experiment was conducted in 1887 in the basement of a campus dormitory by Albert A. Michelson of Case School of Applied Science and Edward W. Morley of Western Reserve University. Michelson became the first American to win a Nobel Prize in science. 
      Also in 2018, "The Hollywood Reporter" ranked CWRU's Department of Theater Master of Fine Arts program with the Cleveland Play House as 18th in the English-speaking world. In 2019, this ranking improved to 12th. 
      In 2014, Washington Monthly ranked Case Western Reserve University as the 9th best National University, but in the 2018 rankings, Case Western Reserve was ranked the 118th best National University. 
      In 2013, Washington Monthly ranked Case Western Reserve as the nation's 4th best National University for contributing to the public good. The publication's ranking was based upon a combination of factors including social mobility, research, and service. In 2009, the school had ranked 15th. Although Washington Monthly no longer ranks contributions to the public good as such, in its 2018 rankings of National Universities Case Western Reserve was ranked 180th in Social mobility and 118th in Service. 
      In 2014, The Times ranked Case Western Reserve 116th worldwide, but in 2019 it ranked the university 132nd. 
      In 2013, Case Western Reserve was among the Top 25 LGBT-Friendly Colleges and Universities, according to Campus Pride, a national organization that aims to make universities safer and more inclusive for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals. The recognition follows Case Western Reserve's first five-star ranking on the Campus Pride Index, a detailed survey of universities' policies, services and institutional support for LGBT individuals. 
      Case Western Reserve ranks 13th among private institutions (26th among all) in federal expenditures for science and engineering research and development, per the National Science Foundation. 
      Case Western Reserve is included in the college educational guide, Hidden Ivies, which discusses the college admissions process and attempts to evaluate 63 colleges in comparison to Ivy League colleges.  
      Undergraduate profile 
      The undergraduate student body hails from all 50 states and over 90 countries. 
      The six most popular majors are Biomedical Engineering, Biology/Biological Sciences, Social Work, Nursing, Mechanical Engineering, and Psychology. Since 2016, the top fields for graduating CWRU undergraduate students have been engineering, nursing, research and science, accounting and financial services, and information technology. 
      Case Western Reserve has an acceptance rate of 27% for the class of 2023. 
      The Class of 2023 had 82 percent of students from outside the state of Ohio and 16 percent from outside the United States. 70 percent graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school class. The mid-50% for SAT scores (25%–75%) were between 1360 and 1480. The mid-50% for ACT scores was 30 to 34 (superscored).  
      Schools and programs 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Frank Gehry designed Peter B. Lewis Building housing the Weatherhead School of Management.
        
       
       
      The university in its present form consists of eight schools:  
      
       College of Arts and Sciences (1826) 
       School of Dental Medicine (1892) 
       Case School of Engineering (1880) 
       School of Law (1892) 
       Weatherhead School of Management (1952) 
       School of Medicine 
        
         'University Program' (1843) 
         Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine ('College Program') (2002)
         
       Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing (1898) 
       Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences (1915)
       
      CWRU also supports over a hundred 'Centers' in various fields.  
      Naming controversy 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The controversial "Case" logo.
        
       
       
      In 2003, the university unveiled a new logo and branding campaign that emphasized the "Case" portion of its name. In 2006, interim university president Gregory Eastwood convened a task group to study reactions to the campaign. The panel's report indicated that it had gone so poorly that, "There appear to be serious concerns now about the university's ability to recruit and maintain high-quality faculty, fund-raising and leadership." Also, the logo was derided among the university's community and alumni and throughout northeastern Ohio; critics said it looked like "...a fat man with a surfboard." 
      In 2007, the university's board of trustees approved a shift back to giving equal weight to "Case" and "Western Reserve." A new logo was chosen and implementation began July 1. In an open letter to the university community, interim president Eastwood admitted that "the university had misplaced its own history and traditions."  
      Research 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Allen Memorial Medical Library.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         DEXTER, Team Case's autonomous car, in DARPA Grand Challenge 2007.
        
       
       
      Case Western Reserve is classified among "R1: Doctoral Universities – Very High Research Activity". Following is a partial list of major contributions made by faculty, staff, and students at Case Western Reserve since 1887:  
      
       Case Western Reserve was the site of the Michelson-Morley interferometer experiment, conducted in 1887 by Albert A. Michelson of Case Institute of Technology and Edward W. Morley of Western Reserve University. This experiment proved the non-existence of the ether, and provided evidence that later substantiated Einstein's special theory of relativity 
       Albert A. Michelson, who became the first American to win a Nobel Prize in science, taught at Case Institute of Technology. He won the prize in physics in 1907. 
       Edward W. Morley, in 1895, made the most precise (to that date) determination of the atomic weight of oxygen, the basis for calculating the weights of all other elements. 
       Dayton C. Miller, in 1896, performed the first full X-ray of the human body—on himself. 
       George W. Crile, in 1905, performed the first modern blood transfusion, using a coupling device to connect blood vessels. 
       Roger G. Perkins, in 1911, pioneered drinking water chlorination to eradicate typhoid bacilli. 
       Henry J. Gerstenberger, in 1915, developed simulated infant formula. 
       Claude S. Beck, in 1935, pioneered surgical treatment of coronary artery disease. 
       Frederick S. Cross, in the 1950s, developed the first heart-lung machine used during open heart surgery. 
       Claude S. Beck, in 1947, performed the first successful lifesaving defibrillation of the human heart and developed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). 
       Robert Kearns, in 1964, invented the intermittent windshield wiper used in most modern automobiles. 
       Frederick Reines, in 1965, first detected neutrinos created by cosmic ray collisions with the Earth's atmosphere and developed innovative particle detectors. Case Western Reserve had selected Prof. Reines as chair of the physics department based on Reines's work that first detected neutrinos emitted from a nuclear reactor—work for which Reines shared a 1995 Nobel Prize. 
       Eric Baer, in 1967, pioneered the materials science of polymers and created the first comprehensive polymer science and engineering department at a major U.S. university. 
       Joseph F. Fagan, in 1987, developed a test for infants to identify mental retardation within one year of birth. 
       In 1987 the first edition of the Encyclopedia of Cleveland History was published. 
       Huntington F. Willard of the School of Medicine and University Hospitals of Cleveland—collaborating with colleagues at Athersys, Inc., in 1997—created the first artificial human chromosomes, opening the door to more detailed study of human genetics and potentially offering a new approach to gene therapy. 
       Roger Quinn, in 2001, developed robots such as Whegs that mimic cockroaches and other crawling insects Case Biorobotics Lab 
       Tshilidzi Marwala, in 2006, began work on Local Loop Unbundling in Africa. He also chaired the Local Loop Unbundling Committee on behalf of the South African Government. Furthermore, Marwala and his collaborators developed an artificial larynx, developed the theory of rational counterfactuals, computer bluffing as well as establishing the relationship between artificial intelligence and the theory of information asymmetry. 
       In 2007, a team from Case Western Reserve participated in the DARPA Urban Challenge with a robotic car named DEXTER. Team Case placed as one of 36 semi-finalists. DEXTER was the only car in the race without any seating for humans, and the only one built from scratch as a robot car. 
       Case Western Reserve University researchers are developing atomically thin drumheads which is tens of trillions times smaller in volume and 100,000 times thinner than the human eardrum. They will be made with the intent to receive and transmit signals across a radio frequency range which will be far greater than what we can hear with the human ear. 
       Simon Ostrach and Yasuhiro Kamotani led spacelab projects entitled surface tension driven convection experiment (STDCE) aboard the space shuttle STS-50 and the re-flight STDCE-2 in USML-2 aboard STS-73 studying oscillatory thermocapillary flows in the absence of gravitational effects. 
       James T'ien has contributed to the study of numerous microgravity combustion space flight experiments including the Candle Flame In Non-Buoyant Atmospheres aboard the Space Shuttle STS-50 along with the reflight to Mir Orbiting Station in 1995, the Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)  taking place aboard the International Space Station along with the experiment reflight (BASS-2). He received the NASA Public Service Medal in 2000. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and serves on the Committee of Biological and Physical Sciences in Space. .
       
      Today, the university operates several facilities off campus for scientific research. One example of this is the Warner and Swasey Observatory at Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona.  
      Electrochemistry 
      The Yeager Center for Electrochemical Sciences (YCES), formerly the Case Center for Electrochemical Sciences, has provided annual workshops on electrochemical measurements since the late 1970s. Related laboratories at Case include the Electrochemical Engineering and Energy Laboratory (EEEL), the Electrochemical Materials Fabrication Laboratory (EMFL), the Case Electrochemical Capacitor Fabrication Facility and the ENERGY LAB. The editor for the Journal of the Electrochemical Society is a Case professor, and the university is home to six Fellows of the Electrochemical Society. Some notable achievements involve the work on boron-doped diamond electrodes, in-situ electrochemical spectroscopy, polybenzibidazole (PBI) membranes for fuel cells and flow batteries and electrochemical sensors. In July 2018, the university was awarded $10.75 million by the U.S. Department of Energy to establish the Energy Frontier Research Center, which will explore "Breakthrough Electrolytes for Energy Storage."  
      Sears think 
      Larry Sears and Sally Zlotnick Sears think is a public-access design and innovation center at Case Western Reserve University that allows students and other users to access prototyping equipment and other invention resources. The makerspace is located in the Richey Mixon building, a seven-story, 50,000 sq. ft. facility behind the campus athletic center. Over $35 million has been invested in space including in large part from a funding of $10 million from alumni Larry Sears and his wife Sally Zlotnick Sears. Larry Sears is an adjunct faculty member in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at CWRU and the founder of Hexagram, Inc. (Now ACLARA Wireless Technologies). Many projects and startup companies have come out of the makerspace.  
      Student life 
      The primary area for restaurants and shopping is the Uptown district along Euclid Ave adjacent to campus. Cleveland's Little Italy is within walking distance. A campus shuttle runs to Coventry Village, a shopping district in neighboring Cleveland Heights. Popular with students, Downtown Cleveland, Ohio City, Legacy Village, and Shaker Square are all a short driving distance or accessible by RTA.  
      Music 
      WRUW-FM (91.1 FM) is the campus radio station of Case Western Reserve University. Its motto "More Music, Fewer Hits" can be seen adorning the rear bumpers of many vehicles in the area. WRUW broadcasts at a power of 15,000 watts and covers most of Northeast Ohio 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
      WRUW is staffed by Case Western Reserve students and community volunteers. The station's format can be classified as non-commercial "variety."  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The 1200-seat Maltz Performing Arts Center showcases Case Western Reserve's music department and 19 ensembles.
        
       
       
      Case Western Reserve is also home to 19 performing ensembles, including a cappella groups such as Dhamakapella, the Case Men's Glee Club, Case Women's Glee Club, Case in Point, and Solstice. Other ensembles include the Case/University Circle Symphony Orchestra, Camerata Chamber Orchestra, Case/CIM Baroque Orchestra, Concert Choir, Early Music Singers, Jazz Ensemble 1 and 2, Marching Spartans, Percussion Ensemble, Symphonic Winds, University Singers, Collegium Musicum, New Music Ensemble, Wind Ensemble, and Chamber Music. 
      Case Western Reserve's main music venue is the Maltz Performing Arts Center. Case Western Reserve also has two main rehearsal spaces for performing arts music majors and school ensembles. Haydn Hall contains practice rooms with Steinway pianos, along with the department offices. Denison Hall serves as a rehearsal, practice, and teaching space for the music students and school ensembles, and is attached to Wade Commons. The Cleveland Youth Wind Symphony also rehearses in Denison Hall. Music majors may take lessons and courses at the Cleveland Institute of Music. 
      For performances, all students, ensembles, and a cappella groups use Harkness Chapel. The bands and orchestra also perform at Severance Hall (the on-campus home of the Cleveland Orchestra) and CIM's Kulas Hall.  
      Computing 
      Case Western Reserve had the first ABET-accredited program in computer engineering. 
      In 1968, the university formed a private company, Chi Corporation, to provide computer time to both it and other customers. Initially this was on a Univac 1108 (replacing the preceding UNIVAC 1107), 36 bit, one's complement machine. The company was sold in 1977 to Robert G. Benson in Beachwood, Ohio becoming Ecocenters Corporation.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         ARPANET network map from 1973 listing Case as an Interface Message Processor (IMP) node.
        
       
       
      Project Logos, under ARPA contract, was begun within the department on a DEC System-10 (later converted to TENEX (BBN) in conjunction with connection to the ARPANET) to develop a computer-aided computer design system. This system consisted in a distributed, networked, graphics environment, a control and data flow designer and logic (both hardware and software) analyzer. An Imlac PDS-1 with lightpen interrupt was the main design workstation in 1973, communicating with the PDP-10 over a display communications protocol written by Don Huff as a Master Thesis and implemented on the Imlac by Ted Brenneman. Graphics and animation became another departmental focus with the acquisition of an Evans &amp; Sutherland LDS-1 (Line Drawing System-1), which was hosted by the DEC System-10, and later with the acquisition of the stand-alone LDS-2. 
      Case Western Reserve was one of the earliest universities connected to the ARPANET, predecessor to the Internet. ARPANET went online in 1969; Case Western Reserve was connected in January, 1971. Case Western Reserve graduate Ken Biba published the Biba Integrity Model in 1977 and served on the ARPA Working Group that developed the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) used on the Internet. 
      Case Western Reserve pioneered the early Free-net computer systems, creating the first Free-net, The Cleveland Free-Net, as well as writing the software that drove a majority of those systems, known as FreePort. The Cleveland Free-Net was shut down in late 1999, as it had become obsolete. 
      It was the first university to have an all-fiber-optic network, in 1989. 
      At the inaugural meeting in October, 1996, Case Western Reserve was one of the 34 charter university members of Internet2. 
      The university was ranked No. 1 in Yahoo Internet Life's 1999 Most Wired College list. There was a perception that this award was obtained through partially false or inaccurate information submitted for the survey, and the university did not appear at all on the 2000 Most Wired College list (which included 100 institutions). The numbers reported were much lower than those submitted by Ray Neff in 1999. The university had previously placed No. 13 in the 1997 poll. 
      In August 2003, Case Western Reserve joined the Internet Streaming Media Alliance, then one of only two university members. 
      In September 2003, Case Western Reserve opened 1,230 public wireless access points on the Case Western Reserve campus and University Circle. 
      Case Western Reserve was one of the founding members of OneCleveland, formed in October 2003. OneCleveland is an "ultra broadband" (gigabit speed) fiber optic network. This network is for the use of organizations in education, research, government, healthcare, arts, culture, and the nonprofit sector in Greater Cleveland. 
      Case Western Reserve's Virtual Worlds gaming computer lab opened in 2005. The lab has a large network of Alienware PCs equipped with game development software such as the Torque Game Engine and Maya 3D modeling software. Additionally, it contains a number of specialized advanced computing rooms including a medical simulation room, a MIDI instrument music room, a 3D projection "immersion room," a virtual reality research room, and console room, which features video game systems such as Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii. This laboratory can be used by any student in the Electrical Engineering and computer science department, and is heavily used for the Game Development (EECS 290) course. 
      Case Western's Internet Technology Service also runs a High Performance Computing Cluster (HPCC) utilizing 2684 processors over 200 computer nodes interconnected with gigabit fiberoptic ethernet. The HPCC is available for research utilizing a wide array of commercial and custom scientific software packages and computer languages including: Matlab, Mathematica, Ansys CFX Fluent and ICEM, Schrödinger, LAMMPS, Gaussian, NEURON, MCell, Python, Qhull, Sundials, Charmm/qchem, Rosetta, Gromacs, NAMD, C, C++, Fortran.  
      Housing 
      Residence halls are divided into two areas: one featuring suite-style rooms for second-year students in the South Residential Village, the other featuring double, single and suite style rooms for first-year students and upperclassmen in the North Residential Village. Both have gigabit ethernet network access and the wired network is one of the fastest that exists. A wireless campus network is also available in all buildings on campus and ranked as one of the fastest by Intel in 2005. Suite style housing, known as the Village at 115th, was opened in fall 2005 for upperclassmen and features one- to nine-person, "apartment-style" residence halls that come with air conditioning, a full kitchen area, and full-sized beds. 
      Residence Life at Case Western Reserve has a recent history of being liberal in its policies, including allowing co-ed suites (an option offered to non-freshman students, when requested and agreed upon by all occupants of a suite) and several co-ed floors for freshmen, as well as a three-day guest policy. Pets are allowed except for dogs, cats, ferrets, and a few other small mammals, but requests are granted discussion. 
      First-year students are grouped into one of four residential colleges that are overseen by first-year coordinators. The Mistletoe, Juniper, and Magnolia residential colleges were established when the "First Year Experience" system was introduced, and Cedar was created in the fall of 2005 to accommodate a large influx of new students. In the fall of 2007, Magnolia was integrated into Mistletoe, however, it was later re-separated in the fall of 2012. The areas of focus for each college are – Cedar: visual and performing arts; Mistletoe: service leadership; Juniper: multiculturalism and Magnolia: sustainability. Magnolia now includes Clarke Tower, which also houses second year students as well as first year students. 
      The residential colleges plan events together and are run by college councils that take student input and use it to plan social and community service-oriented activities. 
      3rd year students who are allowed to live off campus through graduate students have several university owned, university controlled, and independent apartment options.  
      Greek life 
      Nearly one-half of the campus undergraduates are in a fraternity or sorority. There are ten sororities and sixteen fraternities currently on campus. Greek organizations are governed by an Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic Council. During the 2010–2011 school year, fraternities and sororities at Case collectively raised over $45,375 for philanthropy. In September 2010, the Delta Chi fraternity joined the Greek community, achieving chapter status in October 2012. In September 2012, Pi Beta Phi sorority began a colonization effort. In the Spring of 2013, Delta Sigma Phi fraternity began colonization efforts as well. In the Spring of 2014, a colony of Pi Kappa Phi was opened. In the 2014–2015 academic year a chapter of the sorority Sigma Sigma Sigma joined the campus along with the return of the fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Most recently, a colony of Alpha Gamma Delta was established in Spring 2018. Zeta Psi was suspended by its alumni board due to a slew of sexual assault allegations detailed on the Instagram page CWRU Survivors. Case's Interfraternity Council then voted to withdraw recognition of the chapter. 
      The fraternities are:  
       
        
        
          
           
           
            Beta Theta Pi 
            Delta Chi 
            Delta Tau Delta 
            Delta Sigma Phi 
            Delta Upsilon 
            Phi Delta Theta 
            Phi Gamma Delta 
            Phi Kappa Psi 
            Phi Kappa Tau
               
           
           
            Phi Kappa Theta 
            Pi Kappa Phi 
            Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
            Sigma Chi 
            Sigma Nu 
            Theta Chi 
            Zeta Beta Tau
              
         
        
       
       
      The sororities are:  
       
        
        
          
           
           
            Alpha Chi Omega 
            Alpha Gamma Delta 
            Alpha Phi 
            Delta Gamma 
            Kappa Alpha Theta
             
           
           
            Phi Mu 
            Phi Sigma Rho 
            Pi Beta Phi 
            Sigma Psi 
            Sigma Sigma Sigma
              
         
        
       
       
      Safety and security 
      Office of Emergency Management 
      The Office of Emergency Management prepares for various levels of emergencies on campus, such as chemical spills, severe weather, infectious diseases, and security threats. RAVE, a multi-platform emergency alerting system, is operated by Emergency Management for issuing emergency alerts and instructions for events on campus. The Office of Emergency Management also performs risk assessment to identify possible safety issues and aims to mitigate these issues. Additionally, CERT is managed through Emergency Management, enabling faculty and staff members to engage in emergency preparedness. The Office of Emergency Management works closely with other campus departments, such as Police and Security Services, University Health Services, and Environmental Health and Safety, as well as community resources including city, state, and federal emergency management agencies.  
      Police and security services 
      Case operates a police force of sworn officers as well as a security officers. Starting as security only, the university expanded the role of protective services to include sworn officers who have arrest power and carry firearms. Some officers have additional training, such as SWAT training. On top of routine duties such as fingerprinting, traffic control, and bicycle registration, police and security also conduct investigations, undercover operations, and community outreach. Police and Security operate a fleet of vehicles, including police cruisers, scooters, and Smart cars. Police and Security are dispatched by a 24/7 campus dispatch center, responsible for emergency call handling, alarm monitoring, and video surveillance. Additionally, the dispatch center can send RAVE notifications and manages CWRU Shield, a mobile application allowing video, image, and text tips, safety checks, and viewing emergency procedures. CWRU Police also works closely with RTA transit police, University Circle Police, Cleveland Police, East Cleveland Police, Cleveland Heights Police, University Hospitals Police Department, and other surrounding emergency services. Police and Security, with conjunction with the Emergency Management Office, conduct tabletop drills and full-scale exercises involving surrounding emergency services.  
      Traditions 
      Starting in 1910, the Hudson Relay is an annual relay race event remembering and honoring the university relocation from Hudson, Ohio to Cleveland. Conceived by then-student, Monroe Curtis, the relay race was run from the old college in Hudson, Ohio to the new university in University Circle. Since the mid-1980s, the race has been run entirely in the University Circle area. The race is a distance of 26 miles (42&nbsp;km). It is held weekend before spring semester finals. Competing running teams are divided by graduating class. If a class wins the relay all four years, tradition dictates a reward of a champagne and steak dinner with the president of the university be awarded. Only six classes have won all four years—1982, 1990, 1994, 2006, 2011, and 2017. The winning classes of each year is carved on an original boulder located behind Adelbert Hall. 
      Springfest is a day-long concert and student group festival that occurs later in the same day as Hudson Relays. The Springfest Planning Committee brings in several bands and a beer garden, student groups set up booths to entertain the student body, and various inflatable carnival-style attractions are brought in to add to the festive atmosphere. Occasionally, due to adverse weather conditions, the festival must be moved indoors, usually to Thwing Center or Adelbert Gym. 
      Halloween at the Farm is a tradition established in the fall of 2002. Halloween at the Farm takes place at the Squire Valleevue Farm in Hunting Valley, Ohio. Students, their families, and faculty are invited to enjoy games, a bonfire, an open-air concert and hay rides. Organized by the members of the Class Officer Collective, HATF is one of the biggest events of the year. In the fall of 2009 the event was moved to the main campus and renamed "Halloween at Home". 
      Since 1976, the Film Society of Case Western Reserve University has held a science fiction marathon. The film festival, the oldest of its type, boasts more than 34 hours of non-stop movies, cartoons, trailers, and shorts spanning many decades and subgenres, using both film and digital projection. The Film Society, which is student-run and open to the public, also shows movies on Friday and Saturday evenings throughout the school year.  
      Athletics 
      
      
       See also: Case Western Reserve Spartans and Case Western Reserve Spartans football
       
      Case Western Reserve competes in 19 varsity sports—10 men's sports and 9 women's sports. All 19 varsity teams wear a commemorative patch on their uniforms honoring Case alumnus, M. Frank Rudy, inventor of the Nike air-sole. The Spartans' primary athletic rival is Carnegie Mellon University. DiSanto Field is home to the football, men's soccer, women's soccer, and track and field teams.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Veale Athletic Center, which houses much of the Case Western Reserve University athletic and Physical Education departments.
        
       
       
      Case Western Reserve is a founding and current member of the University Athletic Association (UAA). The conference participates in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division III. Case Institute of Technology and Western Reserve University were also founding members of the Presidents' Athletic Conference (PAC) in 1958. When the athletic departments of the two universities merged in 1971 they dominated the (PAC) for several years. The university remained a member of the PAC until 1983. In the fall of 1984 the university joined the North Coast Athletic Conference (NCAC), a pioneer in gender equality in sports, as a charter member. The 1998–99 school year marked the final season in which the Spartans were members of the NCAC. As the university had held joint conference membership affiliation with the UAA and the NCAC for over a decade. In 2014, the football team began competing as an associate member of the PAC, as only four out of the eight UAA member institutions sponsored football. The university offers ten men's sports and nine women's sports. 
      In recent years, the Case Western Reserve baseball team has made appearances in the NCAA post-season. In 2014, the Spartans advanced to the NCAA Mid-East Regional Final before losing to Salisbury State 3–2. The 2014 team set a school record for victories in a season with 34, and also won a UAA title. In 2011, Spartan third baseman Chad Mullins was named the D3Baseball.com Player of the Year after hitting .437 with eight home runs and 71 RBIs. Mullins also ranked in the Division III national top ten in hits, runs scored, and total bases. 
      Case Western Reserve has a long and historied cross country program. The Case Western Reserve's women's cross country team finished the 2006 season with a UAA Championship and a bid to the NCAA Championship. The Lady Spartans finished 10th in the nation. The women's team went on to finish even higher at nationals in 2007, earning a sixth-place finish at the NCAA DIII national championship. Both the men's and women's Cross Country teams qualified for and competed in the NCAA DIII national championships in 2008, with the women's team coming away with two All-Americans and a 16th-place finish. In 2009, they had two All-Americans and finished 15th. In 2010, the lady Spartans finished 19th, with one all-American. From 2006 to 2010 the women's cross country team earned 8 individual All-American Titles, including current professional marathoner Esther Erb. 
      The Case Western Reserve football team reemerged in the mid-2000s under the direction of Head Coach Greg Debeljak. The 2007 team finished undefeated earning the school's first playoff appearance and first playoff victory, winning against Widener University. The undefeated seasons continued in both 2008 and 2009, earning more UAA titles and NCAA Division III playoff appearances, helping set up an all-time school record of a 38-game regular season win streak. In 2017, the Spartans again went undefeated and advanced to the NCAA Division III playoffs, defeating Illinois Wesleyan University in the first round, before being eliminated in the second round by the Mount Union Purple Raiders, the eventual NCAA Division III national champion. In total, the team has won eight UAA football championships–1988, 1996, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2016, and 2017. In 2014, the football team began competing as an associate member of the Presidents' Athletic Conference, winning the conference in 2017. All other sports continue to compete in the University Athletic Association. In 2019, the Spartans finished 9–2, winning an outright PAC title, and earning an automatic bid to the Division III playoffs, where they were defeated in the first round. 
      The Case Western Reserve men's soccer team finished their 2006 season with a 17–2–2 record and a UAA championship. The team reached the Sweet 16 in their first-ever NCAA Division III tournament appearance and concluded the season ranked 12th in the nation. In 2018, the Case Western Reserve men's soccer team made their deepest NCAA run ever, advancing to the NCAA Division III "Elite Eight" before falling in the quarterfinals to Calvin College, 3–1. The 2018 team finished the season with a record of 16–2–2. 
      In 2014, the Spartan men's tennis team was ranked in the Division III Top 10 for most of the season, and advanced to the NCAA Elite Eight before falling to Middlebury College. That same year, two CWRU tennis players, Eric Klawitter and Christopher Krimbill, won the NCAA men's doubles title. In 2021, the Spartan men's tennis team advanced all the way to the finals of the NCAA Division III championship before losing to Emory 5–2; the team finished with an overall 14–3 record, with two of those losses coming against non-Division III competition. 
      CWRU has produced eight individual Division III national champions in Indoor and Outdoor Track and Field. 
      The Case Western Reserve Ultimate Frisbee Team, although a club sport, competes against Division I teams around the country. Established in 1995, the Fighting Gobies have been successful, with the men's team taking home first place in the Ohio Valley Regional Tournament. 
      CWRU wrestlers have won four individual Division III national titles.  
      Notable people 
      
      
       Main article: List of Case Western Reserve University people
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Case alumni Anthony Russo and Joe Russo have directed world-famous blockbusters  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Civil Rights Attorney Fred Gray (J.D.’54)  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Craig Newmark (BS '75, MS '77)—tech billionaire, philanthropist, founder of Craigslist  
          
         
       
      Notable alumni include John Charles Cutler, former surgeon general who violated human rights and led to deaths in the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, Terre Haute prison experiments, and the syphilis experiments in Guatemala; Anthony Russo and Joe Russo, Hollywood movie directors, Paul Buchheit, creator and lead developer of Gmail; Craig Newmark, billionaire founder of Craigslist; Peter Tippett, developer of the anti-virus software Vaccine, which Symantec purchased and turned into the popular Norton AntiVirus. 
      Founders of Fortune 500 companies include Herbert Henry Dow, founder of Dow Chemical, Art Parker, founder of Parker Hannifin, and Edward Williams, co-founder of Sherwin-Williams. 
      Other notable alumni include Pete Koomen, co-founder and CTO of Optimizely; Larry Hurtado, one of the leading New Testament scholars in the world; Harvey Hilbert, a zen master, psychologist and expert on post-Vietnam stress syndrome; Peter Sterling, neuroscientist and co-founder of the concept of allostasis; Ogiame Atuwatse III, Tsola Emiko the 21st Olu of Warri - a historic monarch of the Itsekiri people in Nigeria's Delta region, and Donald Knuth, a leading expert on computer algorithms and creator of the TeX typesetting system.  
      Nobel laureates 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Case Western's 2003 Nobel Prize winners - Paul C. Lauterbur and Peter Agre (1st and 2nd from right) with President George Walker Bush
        
       
       
       
       
        17 Nobel laureates associated with Case Western Reserve University 
        
       
         
         Year 
         Recipient 
         Prize 
         Details 
         
         
         1907 
         Albert A. Michelson 
         Physics 
         First American scientist to win the Nobel Prize 
         
         
         1923 
         John J.R. Macleod 
         Medicine 
         Discovery of insulin 
         
         
         1938 
         Corneille Heymans 
         Medicine 
         Carotid sinus reflex 
         
         
         1954 
         Frederick C. Robbins 
         Medicine 
         Polio vaccine. Dean of CaseMed 
         
         
         1955 
         Polykarp Kusch 
         Physics 
         BS in physics in 1931 
         
         
         1960 
         Donald A. Glaser 
         Physics 
         BS in physics in 1946 
         
         
         1971 
         Earl W. Sutherland Jr. 
         Medicine 
         Professor and chair of pharmacology 
         
         
         1980 
         Paul Berg 
         Chemistry 
         PhD in 1952 
         
         
         1988 
         George H. Hitchings 
         Medicine 
         Professor and researcher 
         
         
         1994 
         Alfred G. Gilman 
         Medicine 
         MD and PhD in 1969 
         
         
         1994 
         George A. Olah 
         Chemistry 
         Professor and chair of chemistry 
         
         
         1995 
         Frederick Reines 
         Physics 
         Professor and chair of physics 
         
         
         1998 
         Ferid Murad 
         Medicine 
         MD and PhD in 1965. Current trustee of Case 
         
         
         2003 
         Paul C. Lauterbur 
         Physiology or Medicine 
         BS in chemistry 
         
         
         2003 
         Peter Agre 
         Chemistry 
         Instructor, 1978 Internal Medicine alumnus 
         
         
         2004 
         Edward C. Prescott 
         Economics 
         MS in operations research in 1964 
         
         
         2017 
         Richard Thaler 
         Economics 
         BA in economics in 1967 
        
       
       
      See also 
      
       Association of Independent Technological Universities
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Seals of WRU, Case, CWRU". www.case.edu. Archived from the original on January 31, 2019. Retrieved 24 June 2019.  
         ^ As of June 30, 2021. 
           "CWRU at a Glance". Case Western Reserve University. Retrieved January 20, 2022.  
         ^ a b c d 
           "CWRU At a Glance". Case Western Reserve University. Retrieved July 27, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "IPEDS-Case Western Reserve University".  
         ^ USNews.com: America's Best Colleges 2008: Case Western Reserve University: Campus Life Archived April 15, 2008, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           "University Marketing &amp; Communications". Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved 27 September 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve". Archived from the original on July 15, 2006. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University Football Gains Affiliate Membership in Presidents' Athletic Conference". Case Western Reserve University. 2011-12-13. Archived from the original on September 25, 2015. Retrieved 10 August 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Association of American Universities Membership". Association of American Universities. Archived from the original on August 10, 2012. Retrieved December 8, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "City Visitor: University Circle". Cityvisitor.com. Archived from the original on December 3, 2017. Retrieved December 2, 2017.  
         ^ a b 
           "Nobel Prize winners". CWRU. 2010-03-17. Archived from the original on June 13, 2010. Retrieved 2010-03-17.  
         ^ 
           "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Archived from the original on November 13, 2015. Retrieved 2015-09-28.  
         ^ 
           Goodheart, Lawrence B. (Winter 1982). "Abolitionists as Academics: The Controversy at Western Reserve College, 1832–1833". History of Education Quarterly. 22 (4): 421–433. doi:10.2307/368067. JSTOR&nbsp;368067.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Archived from the original on September 1, 2017. Retrieved August 19, 2017.  
         ^ 
           Green, Beriah (1833). Four sermons preached in the chapel of the Western Reserve College&nbsp;: on Lord's Days, November 18th and 25th, and December 2nd and 9th, 1832. Cleveland.  
         ^ 
           Morris, J. Brent (Sep 2011). "'All the truly wise or truly pious have one and the same end in view': Oberlin, the West, and abolitionist schism". Civil War History. 57 (3): 234–267. doi:10.1353/cwh.2011.0047 – via Gale Academic Onefile.  
         ^ 
           "Recollections from the Archives: John Sykes Fayette". Blog.case.edu. Archived from the original on December 21, 2018. Retrieved August 19, 2017.  
         ^ 
           "The Claims of the Negro, Ethnologically Considered, an Address" (PDF). Libraryweb.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on May 17, 2017. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           Sawyer Hogg, Helen (1938). "The Centennial Celebration of the Loomis Observatory". Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada. 32: 299. Bibcode:1938JRASC..32..299S.}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)  
         ^ 
           Stamatis, George (November 2002). "Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine". Academic Medicine. 77 (11): 1106. doi:10.1097/00001888-200211000-00008. PMID&nbsp;12431920.  
         ^ a b 
           "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Archived from the original on November 13, 2015. Retrieved 2015-09-28.  
         ^ 
           Martin, C. T. (Deac) (1967). From School to Institute, An Informal Story of Case. The World Publishing Company. p.&nbsp;15.  
         ^ 
           "Albert Einstein Comes to America | RealClearHistory". 2 April 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Deceased Classmates in the Year 1950-1959". United States Naval Academy. 2011. Archived from the original on March 19, 2013. Retrieved September 29, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "History - Case School of Engineering". engineering.case.edu. 4 December 2018. Archived from the original on May 16, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. 1967-07-01. Archived from the original on March 9, 2009. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  
         ^ 
           "The Reserve Tribune 17 May 1968 — Case Western Reserve University". Newspapers.case.edu. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           Gill, Kathy (2009). The History of Biomedical Engineering at Case Western Reserve University 1960 - 2009. Cleveland.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve fundraising tops $1.5 billion goal". 2017-10-06. Archived from the original on April 14, 2018. Retrieved April 14, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve President Barbara R. Snyder to lead Association of American Universities". February 3, 2020.  
         ^ 
           Releases, News (2020-07-27). "Case Western Reserve and Cleveland Clinic to Host First Presidential Debate Tuesday, Sept. 29, in Health Education Campus' Samson Pavilion". Cleveland Clinic Newsroom. Retrieved 2020-09-29.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University selects Eric W. Kaler as new president". Cleveland.com. October 29, 2020.  
         ^ 
           Illy, József (7 August 2018). Albert Meets America: How Journalists Treated Genius During Einstein's 1921 Travels. JHU Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780801884573 – via Google Books.  
         ^ 
           "01. Case Quad". Case.edu. August 2017. Archived from the original on January 23, 2019. Retrieved January 23, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Undergraduate Housing - CWRU". students.case.edu. Archived from the original on January 23, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Stephanie Tubbs Jones Residence Hall | University Housing | Case Western Reserve University". case.edu. Archived from the original on September 3, 2019. Retrieved 2019-09-03.  
         ^ 
           "Map" (PDF). Case.edu. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Safe Ride Program". Case.edu. 2018-03-02. Archived from the original on January 21, 2019. Retrieved January 21, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "University Circle Area" (PDF). Riderta.com. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 21, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "4973 Parking Brochure pX" (PDF). case.edu/parking. 2018–2019. Retrieved 2019-03-06.  
         ^ 
           "Metered Parking Payment". Case.edu. 2018–2019. Archived from the original on March 6, 2019. Retrieved 2019-03-06.  
         ^ 
           "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2020: National/Regional Rank". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved August 15, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "America's Top Colleges 2021". Forbes. Retrieved September 9, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2021". The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved October 20, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "2021 Best National University Rankings". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Retrieved September 24, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "2020 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved August 31, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2020". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2020. Retrieved August 15, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "QS World University Rankings 2022". Quacquarelli Symonds. Retrieved June 18, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "World University Rankings 2021". Times Higher Education. Retrieved September 2, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "2021 Best Global Universities Rankings". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Retrieved October 20, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". usnews.com. US News &amp; World Report LP. Archived from the original on August 12, 2019. Retrieved 27 November 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". usnews.com. US News &amp; World Report LP. Archived from the original on May 1, 2019. Retrieved 27 November 2019.  
         ^ a b 
           "Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2020". timeshighereducation.com. THE World Universities Insights Limited. Archived from the original on September 25, 2019. Retrieved 27 November 2019.  
         ^ 
           "- Case faculty 1st American to get Science Nobel". Retrieved 16 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University - the 25 Best Drama Schools for an Acting Degree, Ranked". The Hollywood Reporter. 21 May 2018. Archived from the original on January 20, 2019. Retrieved January 20, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "The 14 Best National Universities According To Washington Monthly". The Huffington Post. 25 August 2014. Archived from the original on August 26, 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Introduction: A Different Kind of College Ranking". The Washington Monthly. Archived from the original on 7 September 2015. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "2018 National University Rankings". washingtonmonthly.com. Washington Monthly. 11 May 2019. Archived from the original on June 4, 2019. Retrieved 24 August 2019.  
         ^ National University Rankings 2013 Archived September 13, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. Washington Monthly. Retrieved on 2013-09-04.  
         ^ 
           "Washington Monthly". Archived from the original on 2010-01-21. Retrieved 2012-04-16.  
         ^ 
           "Top 200 - The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2014-2015". Timeshighereducation.co.uk. October 2014. Archived from the original on October 2, 2014. Retrieved 2014-12-16.  
         ^ 
           "CWRU pride: University makes list of top LGBT-friendly colleges". August 2013. Archived from the original on August 6, 2019. Retrieved August 6, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Institutional Research - Case Western Reserve University". Institutional Research. Archived from the original on May 14, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "CWRU 2019 Annual Report" (PDF). Retrieved 19 January 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Outcomes and Data". Post-Graduate Planning and Experiential Education. CWRU. Retrieved 26 May 2020.  
         ^ 
           "By the numbers: Meet the Class of 2023". Thedailycase.edu. 20 August 2019. Archived from the original on August 21, 2019. Retrieved 21 August 2019.  
         ^ 
           "First-Year Student Profile 2019" (PDF). Undergraduate Admission. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 1, 2019. Retrieved 19 January 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Schools + Programs - Degree Programs - Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Archived from the original on May 19, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University - Centers and Institutes". Case.edu. Archived from the original on 2010-04-02. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  
         ^ 
           "Branding Task Group to end logo woes". Archived from the original on September 8, 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". Archived from the original on March 4, 2007. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". Archived from the original on May 17, 2008. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Carnegie Classifications - Institution Profile". Indiana University Center for Postsecondary Research. Retrieved March 30, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "PERKINS, ROGER GRISWOLD". Encyclopedia of Cleveland History | Case Western Reserve University. 2018-06-18. Archived from the original on November 15, 2019. Retrieved 2019-11-15.  
         ^ 
           "University of California: In Memoriam, 1998". Archived from the original on July 7, 2012. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "About". Encyclopedia of Cleveland History. Case Western Reserve University. 31 May 2018. Archived from the original on May 14, 2019. Retrieved May 20, 2019.  
         ^ 
           Roger D. Quinn, Gabriel M. Nelson, Richard J. Bachmann, Daniel A. Kingsley, John Offi, Roy E. Ritzmann (2001). "Insect designs for improved robot mobility": 69–76. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.83.4010. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           "Team Case". Archived from the original on 10 August 2015. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           Belfiore, Michael (31 October 2007). "Organ Donation for Robot Car". Wired.com. Archived from the original on July 2, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "New Nanotech Device Provides Cat-Like 'Hearing'". SciTechDaily. 2018-04-01. Archived from the original on April 3, 2018. Retrieved 2018-04-03.  
         ^ 
           Ostrach, S.; Kamotani, Y. (June 1996). "STDCE" (PDF). Ntrs.nasa.gov. NASA. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 11, 2019. Retrieved 10 Dec 2018.  
         ^ 
           Ostrach, Simon; Kamotani, Yasuhiro (September 1996). "STDCE-2" (PDF). Third Microgravity Fluid Physics Conference. NASA. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 2, 2019. Retrieved 10 Dec 2018.  
         ^ 
           Dietrich, D. L.; Ross, H. D.; Shu, Y.; Tien, J. S. (January 1999). "Candle Flames in Non-Buoyant Atmospheres (Shortened Title: Candle Flames)" (PDF). Ntrs.nasa.gov. NASA. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 24, 2018. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Burning and Suppression of Solids". NASA.gov. Archived from the original on May 19, 2017. Retrieved 10 Dec 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Experiment Details". NASA.gov. Archived from the original on May 23, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "James S. T'ien | Dept. Of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering". 2013-11-19. Archived from the original on December 14, 2018. Retrieved 10 December 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on August 13, 2019. Retrieved August 13, 2019.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "'Breakthrough' energy storage". 9 July 2018. Archived from the original on July 16, 2018. Retrieved July 16, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Sears think". Thinkbox.case.edu. Archived from the original on September 17, 2016. Retrieved 2016-09-21.  
         ^ 
           "Cleveland's Thinkbox Is a Big Bet on University Makerspaces | Make". Make: DIY Projects and Ideas for Makers. 2015-10-30. Archived from the original on October 18, 2016. Retrieved 2016-09-21.  
         ^ 
           "Larry and Sally Sears". 2015-10-09. Archived from the original on October 13, 2016. Retrieved 2016-09-21.  
         ^ 
           "Projects at think | Sears think". Thinkbox.case.edu. Archived from the original on September 28, 2016. Retrieved 2016-09-21.  
         ^ 
           "Case Men's Glee Club". Archived from the original on May 6, 2005. Retrieved 16 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Case Women's Glee Club". filer.case.edu. Archived from the original on June 12, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Department of Music (2014-06-20). "Ensembles | Department of Music". Music.case.edu. Archived from the original on July 21, 2007. Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
         ^ 
           "History". 2011-11-29. Archived from the original on January 4, 2014. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           John Walker. "Chi Corporation Code Card". Archived from the original on August 29, 2005. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "A Brief History of the Internet". Archived from the original on August 11, 2015. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "CWRU Magazine - Spring 1999 | Feature&nbsp;: The Heart of Campus". Archived from the original on March 6, 2005.  
         ^ Internet2. Retrieved from 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2005-11-18. Retrieved 2005-08-08.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link).  
         ^ 
           "CWRU is Yahoo's most-wired campus". Archived from the original on August 30, 2005.  
         ^ 
           "Yahoo's 'Most Wired Colleges' List Again Provokes Controversy". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 2000-04-28. Archived from the original on February 14, 2009. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". Archived from the original on February 9, 2005. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           Whalen, Elizabeth (April 21, 2000). "CWRU plummets in Yahoo! wired rankings". The Observer. Archived from the original on December 10, 2008. Retrieved November 10, 2007.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve University". Archived from the original on April 4, 2005. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case joins leading-edge Internet Streaming Consortium". August 14, 2003. Archived from the original on 2008-12-10. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Unveils Nation's Largest Free, Public Wireless Service". August 27, 2003. Archived from the original on 2008-12-10. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve, OneCommunity Bring Free Wireless to Hopkins Airport: News Center: Marketing and Communications: Case Western Reserve University". Blog.case.edu. 2009-12-18. Archived from the original on January 12, 2010. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  
         ^ EECS Department: Virtual Worlds Laboratory Archived January 12, 2007, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           "Residential Colleges for First-Year Students - CWRU Housing &amp; Residence Life". Students.case.edu. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved 2012-11-08.  
         ^ 
           "Discover Greek Life at Case! - Case Office of Greek Life". Studentaffairs.case.edu. Archived from the original on August 26, 2014. Retrieved 2012-11-25.  
         ^ 
           "Nu Chapter Suspended By Elders". Zeta Psi Fraternity. 2020-08-20. Retrieved 2020-12-14.  
         ^ 
           "Office of Emergency Management". Case Western Reserve University. Archived from the original on November 21, 2014. Retrieved 30 March 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Police and Security Services". Police.case.edu. Archived from the original on December 14, 2014. Retrieved December 9, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Emergency response exercise offers invaluable learning". Archived from the original on 2014-12-09.  
         ^ 
           "Adelbert College student Monroe Curtis founded Hudson Relays tradition". 22 April 2016. Archived from the original on August 30, 2017. Retrieved June 17, 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Hudson Relay Rules, Routes, &amp; Winners". Case.edu. Archived from the original on May 15, 2017. Retrieved June 17, 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Hudson Relays". Student Activities and Leadership - Division of Student Affairs - Case Western Reserve University. 25 April 2019. Archived from the original on May 14, 2019. Retrieved 19 May 2019.  
         ^ 
           "CWRU Film Society". Archived from the original on July 19, 2019. Retrieved 3 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western to Wear Patch Honoring Air-Sole Inventor". 4 September 2014. Archived from the original on 13 October 2016. Retrieved 16 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Case Western Reserve". Case Western Reserve. Archived from the original on November 12, 2017. Retrieved November 11, 2017.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Cutler, Carroll (1876). A History of Western Reserve College: During Its First Half Century, 1826–1876. Cleveland: Crocker's.
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Case Western Reserve University at Wikimedia Commons 
       Official website  
       Case Western Reserve Athletics website
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Case Western Reserve University
           
         
         
          Academics
          
           
           
            
             
              Schools
              
                
                
                 Case School of Engineering 
                 College of Arts and Sciences 
                 Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing 
                 Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences 
                 School of Dental Medicine 
                 School of Law 
                 School of Medicine 
                 Weatherhead School of Management
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 Department of Biomedical Engineering 
                 Frederick K. Cox International Law Center 
                 NEO CANDO 
                 Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law
                 
               
             
            
           
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Campus
          
            
            
             Adelbert Hall 
             Allen Memorial Medical Library 
             Dittrick Museum of Medical History 
             Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle · 
             Kent H. Smith Quadrangle 
             Health Education Campus 
             Maltz Performing Arts Center 
             Mather House 
             Michelson-Morley Memorial Fountain 
             Rainbow Babies &amp; Children's Hospital 
             University Circle 
             University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center 
             Cleveland Clinic 
             Warner and Swasey Observatory
             
           
         
         
          Athletics
          
            
            
             Case Western Reserve Spartans 
             Football 
             Academic Bowl 
             DiSanto Field 
             University Athletic Association
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Notable alumni and affiliates 
              Nobel laureates 
             Presidents
             
           
         
         
          Student life
          
            
            
             Dhamakapella 
             WRUW-FM 
             The Observer
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Articles related to Case Western Reserve University
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  University Athletic Association
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Brandeis Judges 
                   Carnegie Mellon Tartans 
                   Case Western Reserve Spartans 
                   Chicago Maroons 
                   Emory Eagles 
                   NYU Violets 
                   Rochester Yellowjackets 
                   Washington University Bears
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Association of American Universities
                 
               
               
                Public
                
                  
                  
                   Arizona 
                   California 
                    
                     Berkeley 
                     Davis 
                     Irvine 
                     Los Angeles 
                     San Diego 
                     Santa Barbara 
                     Santa Cruz
                     
                   Colorado 
                   Florida 
                   Georgia Tech 
                   Illinois 
                   Indiana 
                   Iowa 
                   Iowa State 
                   Kansas 
                   Maryland 
                   Michigan 
                   Michigan State 
                   Minnesota 
                   Missouri 
                   New York 
                    
                     Buffalo 
                     Stony Brook
                     
                   North Carolina 
                   Ohio State 
                   Oregon 
                   Penn State 
                   Pittsburgh 
                   Purdue 
                   Rutgers 
                   Texas 
                   Texas A&amp;M 
                   Utah 
                   Virginia 
                   Washington 
                   Wisconsin
                   
                 
               
               
                Private
                
                  
                  
                   Boston U 
                   Brandeis 
                   Brown 
                   Caltech 
                   Carnegie Mellon 
                   Case Western Reserve 
                   Chicago 
                   Columbia 
                   Cornell 
                   Dartmouth 
                   Duke 
                   Emory 
                   Harvard 
                   Johns Hopkins 
                   MIT 
                   Northwestern 
                   NYU 
                   Penn 
                   Princeton 
                   Rice 
                   Rochester 
                   USC 
                   Stanford 
                   Tufts 
                   Tulane 
                   Vanderbilt 
                   Wash U 
                   Yale
                   
                 
               
               
                Canadian (public)
                
                  
                  
                   McGill 
                   Toronto
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Colleges and universities in the state of Ohio
                 
               
               
                Private
                
                  
                  
                   Antioch College 
                   Art Academy of Cincinnati 
                   Ashland University 
                   Baldwin Wallace University 
                   Bluffton University 
                   Capital University 
                   Case Western Reserve University 
                   Cedarville University 
                   Cleveland Institute of Art 
                   Cleveland Institute of Electronics 
                   Cleveland Institute of Music 
                   University of Dayton 
                   Defiance College 
                   Denison University 
                   University of Findlay 
                   Franciscan University of Steubenville 
                   Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion 
                   Heidelberg University 
                   Hiram College 
                   John Carroll University 
                   Kenyon College 
                   Kettering College of Medical Arts 
                   Lake Erie College 
                   Lourdes University 
                   Malone University 
                   Marietta College 
                   Mount St. Joseph University 
                   University of Mount Union 
                   Muskingum University 
                   University of Northwestern Ohio 
                   Notre Dame College 
                   Oberlin College 
                   Ohio Christian University 
                   Ohio Dominican University 
                   Ohio Northern University 
                   Ohio Wesleyan University 
                   Otterbein University 
                   Mount Vernon Nazarene University 
                   University of Rio Grande 
                   Tiffin University 
                   Ursuline College 
                   Walsh University 
                   Wilberforce University 
                   Wilmington College 
                   Wittenberg University 
                   College of Wooster 
                   Xavier University
                   
                 
               
               
                Public
                
                  
                  
                   University of Akron 
                   Belmont Technical College 
                   Bowling Green State University 
                   Central Ohio Technical College 
                   Central State University 
                   Cincinnati State Technical and Community College 
                   University of Cincinnati 
                   Clark State Community College 
                   Cleveland State University 
                   Columbus State Community College 
                   Cuyahoga Community College 
                   Eastern Gateway Community College 
                   Edison State Community College 
                   Hocking College 
                   James A. Rhodes State College 
                   Kent State University 
                   Lakeland Community College 
                   Lorain County Community College 
                   Marion Technical College 
                   Miami University 
                   North Central State College 
                   Northeast Ohio Medical University 
                   Northwest State Community College 
                   Ohio State University 
                   Ohio University 
                   Owens Community College 
                   Shawnee State University 
                   Sinclair Community College 
                   Southern State Community College 
                   Stark State College 
                   Terra State Community College 
                   University of Toledo 
                   Washington State Community College 
                   Wright State University 
                   Youngstown State University 
                   Zane State College
                   
                 
               
               
                Defunct
                
                  
                  
                   Chancellor University 
                   Cincinnati Christian University 
                   Urbana University
                   
                 
               
               
                
                 
                  University System of Ohio
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
              
               2 
               3
              
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Case_Western_Reserve_University&amp;oldid=1067286470"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Case Western Reserve University
       1826 establishments in Ohio
       Educational institutions established in 1826
       Technological universities in the United States
       Universities and colleges in Cleveland
       University Circle
       Universities and colleges formed by merger in the United States
       Private universities and colleges in Ohio
       Western Reserve, Ohio
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from November 2016
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Coordinates on Wikidata
       Articles using infobox university
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2021
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2018
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2019
       All articles with failed verification
       Articles with failed verification from December 2011
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       پنجابی
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 22 January 2022, at 18:01&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
