
 
  
   
  Nick Jardine - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Nick Jardine 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Nicholas Jardine)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Nicholas Jardine FBA (born 4 September 1943) is a British mathematician, philosopher of science and its history, historian of astronomy and natural history, and amateur mycologist. He is Emeritus Professor at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science (HPS) at the University of Cambridge.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Career 
        2 Hobbies 
        3 Personal life 
        4 Selected publications 
        5 References 
        
       
      Career 
      Jardine was educated at Monkton Combe School in Somerset and read natural sciences at King's College, Cambridge. He then worked as a King's College and Royal Society Research Fellow on the automation of classification and information retrieval and its applications to biological taxonomy and diagnosis. In 1975 he moved to Darwin College, Cambridge and to the Department of History and Philosophy of Science. Since then he has developed a question-based pragmatic philosophy of science (inspired by the work of Ian Hacking), as well as studying the history of early-modern astronomy and natural history, and reflecting on the methodology of the history of the sciences. From 1987–2011 he was Senior Editor of Studies in History and Philosophy of Science and from 1998 of Studies in History and Philosophy of Biological and Biomedical Sciences. Since his retirement in 2010 he has been Senior Consultant to the Cambridge Scientific Heritage Project (2010–13) and principal investigator of the project Diagrams, Figures and the Transformation of Astronomy, 1450–1650 (2008–14) http://www.astronomicalimages.group.cam.ac.uk  
      Hobbies 
      Jardine was a founding member in 1988 of the popular research seminar "The Cabinet of Natural History (Cambridge Group for the History of Natural History and the Environmental Sciences)". This is organised by staff and students of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, and in term time it holds weekly seminars led by academic speakers. Jardine is a keen amateur mycologist and for over twenty years has led the annual HPS fungus hunt.  
      Personal life 
      Jardine married historian Lisa Bronowski in 1969, divorcing in 1979; the couple had two children.  
      Selected publications 
      
       Jardine, Nicholas and Sibson, Robin (1971) Mathematical Taxonomy, Wiley: London and New York 
       Jardine, Nicholas and van Rijsbergen, C. J. (1974) Automatic Document Classification and Retrieval, Office for Scientific and Technical Information Report No. 5134, distributed by the National Lending Library 
       Jardine, Nicholas (1984) The Birth of History and Philosophy of Science. Kepler's 'A Defence of Tycho against Ursus' with Essays on its Provenance and Significance, Cambridge University Press (2nd rev. ed. 1988) 
       Jardine, Nicholas (1986) The Fortunes of Inquiry, Clarendon Press: Oxford (1986) 
       Cunningham, Andrew and Jardine, Nicholas eds (1990) Romanticism and the Sciences, Cambridge University Press. 
       Jardine, Nicholas (1991) The Scenes of Inquiry: On the Reality of Questions in the Sciences, Oxford University Press (2nd ed. with supplementary essays 2000) 
       Jardine, Nicholas, Secord, J., and Spary, E.C. eds (1996) Cultures of Natural History, Cambridge University Press 
       Frasca-Spada, Marina and Jardine, Nicholas eds (2000) Books and the Sciences in History, Cambridge University Press 
       Jardine, Nicholas, Frasca-Spada, Marina, Raven, Faith and Stearn, W. T. eds (2001) J. E. Raven, Plants and Plant Lore in Ancient Greece, Leopard's Head: Oxford 
       Jardine, Nicholas and Segonds, Alain-Philippe eds (2008) La Guerre des astronomes: La querelle au sujet de l'origine du système géo-héliocentrique à la fin du XVIe siècle, Les Belles Lettres: Paris, 3 vols 
       Jardine, Nicholas, and Raphael, R. eds (2010) Forms and Functions of Early Modern Celestial Imagery, Part I, special issue of Journal for the History of Astronomy 41/3 
       Jardine, Nicholas, and Raphael, R. eds (2011) Forms and Functions of Early Modern Celestial Imagery, Part II, special issue of Journal for the History of Astronomy 42/1 
       Jardine, Nicholas, and Fay, I. eds (2013) Observing the World through Images: Diagrams and Figures in the Early-Modern Arts and Sciences, Brill: Leiden 
       Jardine, Nicholas, and Wilson, L. eds (2013) Recent Material Heritage of the Sciences, part special issue of Studies in History and Philosophy of Science 44/4 
       Jardine, Nicholas, Granada, M.A, and Mosley, A. (2014) Christoph Rothmann's Treatise on the Comet of 1585: An Edition and Translation with Accompanying Essays, Brill: Leiden
       
      
       The standard author abbreviation N.Jardine is used to indicate this person as the author when citing a botanical name.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ HPS Cambridge: Teaching Officers Nick Jardine  
        ^ HPS Cambridge: Fungus Hunt 2009  Retrieved 28 August 2010.  
        ^ "Prize fighter". The Guardian. 26 May 2002.  
        ^ 
          IPNI. &nbsp;N.Jardine.  
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             International Plant Names Index 
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1 
               2
               
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nick_Jardine&amp;oldid=1050975022"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1943 births
       Living people
       Fellows of Darwin College, Cambridge
       Philosophers of science
       British mycologists
       Historians of science
       People educated at Monkton Combe School
       Fellows of the British Academy
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Botanists with author abbreviations
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with Botanist identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikispecies
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 20 October 2021, at 23:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
