
 
  
   
  Hypertext - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Hypertext 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Text with references (links) to other text that the reader can immediately access
       
      
      
       For the concept in semiotics, see Hypertext (semiotics).
       
      
      
       "Metatext" redirects here. For the literary concept, see Metafiction.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Documents that are connected by hyperlinks.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Information mapping
        
        
          Topics and fields
        
        
          
          
           Business decision mapping 
           Data visualization 
           Graphic communication 
           Infographics 
           Information design 
           Knowledge visualization 
           Mental model 
           Morphological analysis 
           Visual analytics 
           Visual language
           
        
        
          Node–link approaches
        
        
          
          
           Argument map 
           Cladistics 
           Cognitive map 
           Concept lattice 
           Concept map 
           Conceptual graph 
           Decision tree 
           Dendrogram 
           Graph drawing 
           Hyperbolic tree 
           Hypertext 
           Issue map 
           Issue tree 
           Layered graph drawing 
           Mind map 
           Object-role modeling 
           Organizational chart 
           Radial tree 
           Semantic network 
           Sociogram 
           Timeline 
           Topic map 
           Tree structure
           
        
        
          See also
        
        
          
          
           Design rationale 
           Diagrammatic reasoning 
           Entity–relationship model 
           Geovisualization 
           List of concept- and mind-mapping software 
           Olog 
           Problem structuring methods 
           Semantic Web 
           Treemapping 
           Wicked problem
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Engineer Vannevar Bush wrote "As We May Think" in 1945 in which he described the Memex, a theoretical proto-hypertext device which in turn helped inspire the subsequent invention of hypertext.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Douglas Engelbart in 2009, at the 40th anniversary celebrations of "The Mother of All Demos" in San Francisco, a 90-minute 1968 presentation of the NLS computer system which was a combination of hardware and software that demonstrated many hypertext ideas.
        
       
       
      Hypertext is text displayed on a computer display or other electronic devices with references (hyperlinks) to other text that the reader can immediately access. Hypertext documents are interconnected by hyperlinks, which are typically activated by a mouse click, keypress set, or screen touch. Apart from text, the term "hypertext" is also sometimes used to describe tables, images, and other presentational content formats with integrated hyperlinks. Hypertext is one of the key underlying concepts of the World Wide Web, where Web pages are often written in the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). As implemented on the Web, hypertext enables the easy-to-use publication of information over the Internet.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 Types and uses of hypertext 
        3 History 
        4 Implementations 
        5 Academic conferences 
        6 Hypertext fiction 
          
          6.1 Forms of hypertext 
           
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Documentary film 
        10 Bibliography 
        11 Further reading 
        12 External links 
          
          12.1 Hypertext conferences 
           
        
       
      Etymology 
      
      
        "(...)'Hypertext' is a recent coinage. 'Hyper-' is used in the mathematical sense of extension and generality (as in 'hyperspace,' 'hypercube') rather than the medical sense of 'excessive' ('hyperactivity'). There is no implication about size— a hypertext could contain only 500 words or so. 'Hyper-' refers to structure and not size." 
       
        — Theodor H. Nelson, Brief Words on the Hypertext, 23 January 1967
       
       
      The English prefix "hyper-" comes from the Greek prefix "ὑπερ-" and means "over" or "beyond"; it has a common origin with the prefix "super-" which comes from Latin. It signifies the overcoming of the previous linear constraints of written text. 
      The term "hypertext" is often used where the term "hypermedia" might seem appropriate. 
      In 1992, author Ted Nelson&nbsp;– who coined both terms in 1963&nbsp;– wrote:  
      
      
        By now the word "hypertext" has become generally accepted for branching and responding text, but the corresponding word "hypermedia", meaning complexes of branching and responding graphics, movies and sound&nbsp;– as well as text&nbsp;– is much less used. Instead they use the strange term "interactive multimedia": this is four syllables longer, and does not express the idea of extending hypertext. 
       
        — Nelson, Literary Machines, 1992
       
       
      Types and uses of hypertext 
      Hypertext documents can either be static (prepared and stored in advance) or dynamic (continually changing in response to user input, such as dynamic web pages). Static hypertext can be used to cross-reference collections of data in documents, software applications, or books on CDs. A well-constructed system can also incorporate other user-interface conventions, such as menus and command lines. Links used in a hypertext document usually replace the current piece of hypertext with the destination document. A lesser known feature is StretchText, which expands or contracts the content in place, thereby giving more control to the reader in determining the level of detail of the displayed document. Some implementations support transclusion, where text or other content is included by reference and automatically rendered in place. 
      Hypertext can be used to support very complex and dynamic systems of linking and cross-referencing. The most famous implementation of hypertext is the World Wide Web, written in the final months of 1990 and released on the Internet in 1991.  
      History 
      
      
       Main articles: History of hypertext and Timeline of hypertext technology
       
      In 1941, Jorge Luis Borges published "The Garden of Forking Paths", a short story that is often considered an inspiration for the concept of hypertext. 
      In 1945, Vannevar Bush wrote an article in The Atlantic Monthly called "As We May Think", about a futuristic proto-hypertext device he called a Memex. A Memex would hypothetically store — and record — content on reels of microfilm, using electric photocells to read coded symbols recorded next to individual microfilm frames while the reels spun at high speed, and stopping on command. The coded symbols would enable the Memex to index, search, and link content to create and follow associative trails. Because the Memex was never implemented and could only link content in a relatively crude fashion — by creating chains of entire microfilm frames — the Memex is now regarded only as a proto-hypertext device, but it is fundamental to the history of hypertext because it directly inspired the invention of hypertext by Ted Nelson and Douglas Engelbart.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Ted Nelson gives a presentation on Project Xanadu, a theoretical hypertext model conceived in the 1960s whose first and incomplete implementation was first published in 1998.
        
       
       
      In 1963, Ted Nelson coined the terms 'hypertext' and 'hypermedia' as part of a model he developed for creating and using linked content (first published reference 1965). He later worked with Andries van Dam to develop the Hypertext Editing System (text editing) in 1967 at Brown University. It was implemented using the terminal IBM 2250 with a light pen which was provided as a pointing device. By 1976, its successor FRESS was used in a poetry class in which students could browse a hyperlinked set of poems and discussion by experts, faculty and other students, in what was arguably the world’s first online scholarly community which van Dam says "foreshadowed wikis, blogs and communal documents of all kinds". Ted Nelson said in the 1960s that he began implementation of a hypertext system he theorized, which was named Project Xanadu, but his first and incomplete public release was finished much later, in 1998. 
      Douglas Engelbart independently began working on his NLS system in 1962 at Stanford Research Institute, although delays in obtaining funding, personnel, and equipment meant that its key features were not completed until 1968. In December of that year, Engelbart demonstrated a 'hypertext' (meaning editing) interface to the public for the first time, in what has come to be known as "The Mother of All Demos". 
      ZOG, an early hypertext system, was developed at Carnegie Mellon University during the 1970s, used for documents on Nimitz class aircraft carriers, and later evolving as KMS (Knowledge Management System). 
      The first hypermedia application is generally considered to be the Aspen Movie Map, implemented in 1978. The Movie Map allowed users to arbitrarily choose which way they wished to drive in a virtual cityscape, in two seasons (from actual photographs) as well as 3-D polygons. 
      In 1980, Tim Berners-Lee created ENQUIRE, an early hypertext database system somewhat like a wiki but without hypertext punctuation, which was not invented until 1987. The early 1980s also saw a number of experimental "hyperediting" functions in word processors and hypermedia programs, many of whose features and terminology were later analogous to the World Wide Web. Guide, the first significant hypertext system for personal computers, was developed by Peter J. Brown at the University of Kent in 1982. 
      In 1980, Roberto Busa, an Italian Jesuit priest and one of the pioneers in the usage of computers for linguistic and literary analysis, published the Index Thomisticus, as a tool for performing text searches within the massive corpus of Aquinas's works. Sponsored by the founder of IBM, Thomas J. Watson, the project lasted about 30 years (1949-1980), and eventually produced the 56 printed volumes of the Index Thomisticus the first important hypertext work about Saint Thomas Aquinas books and of a few related authors. 
      In 1983, Ben Shneiderman at the University of Maryland Human - Computer Interaction Lab led a group that developed the HyperTies system that was commercialized by Cognetics Corporation. Hyperties was used to create the July 1988 issue of the Communications of the ACM as a hypertext document and then the first commercial electronic book Hypertext Hands-On! 
      In August 1987, Apple Computer released HyperCard for the Macintosh line at the MacWorld convention. Its impact, combined with interest in Peter J. Brown's GUIDE (marketed by OWL and released earlier that year) and Brown University's Intermedia, led to broad interest in and enthusiasm for hypertext, hypermedia, databases, and new media in general. The first ACM Hypertext (hyperediting and databases) academic conference took place in November 1987, in Chapel Hill NC, where many other applications, including the branched literature writing software Storyspace, were also demonstrated. 
      Meanwhile, Nelson (who had been working on and advocating his Xanadu system for over two decades) convinced Autodesk to invest in his revolutionary ideas. The project continued at Autodesk for four years, but no product was released. 
      In 1989, Tim Berners-Lee, then a scientist at CERN, proposed and later prototyped a new hypertext project in response to a request for a simple, immediate, information-sharing facility, to be used among physicists working at CERN and other academic institutions. He called the project "WorldWideWeb".  
      
      
        HyperText is a way to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will. Potentially, HyperText provides a single user-interface to many large classes of stored information, such as reports, notes, data-bases, computer documentation and on-line systems help. We propose the implementation of a simple scheme to incorporate several different servers of machine-stored information already available at CERN, including an analysis of the requirements for information access needs by experiments... A program which provides access to the hypertext world we call a browser. ― T. Berners-Lee, R. Cailliau, 12 November 1990, CERN 
       
      In 1992, Lynx was born as an early Internet web browser. Its ability to provide hypertext links within documents that could reach into documents anywhere on the Internet began the creation of the Web on the Internet. 
      As new web browsers were released, traffic on the World Wide Web quickly exploded from only 500 known web servers in 1993 to over 10,000 in 1994. As a result, all previous hypertext systems were overshadowed by the success of the Web, even though it lacked many features of those earlier systems, such as integrated browsers/editors (a feature of the original WorldWideWeb browser, which was not carried over into most of the other early Web browsers).  
      Implementations 
      Besides the already mentioned Project Xanadu, Hypertext Editing System, NLS, HyperCard, and World Wide Web, there are other noteworthy early implementations of hypertext, with different feature sets:  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Hypertext Editing System (HES) IBM 2250 Display console&nbsp;– Brown University 1969
        
       
       
      
       FRESS – a 1970s multi-user successor to the Hypertext Editing System. 
       ZOG – a 1970s hypertext system developed at Carnegie Mellon University. 
       Electronic Document System – an early 1980s text and graphic editor for interactive hypertexts such as equipment repair manuals and computer-aided instruction. 
       Information Presentation Facility – used to display online help in IBM operating systems. 
       Intermedia – a mid-1980s program for group web-authoring and information sharing. 
       HyperTies - a mid-1980s program commercially applied to hundreds of projects, including July 1988 Communications of the ACM and Hypertext Hands-On! book. 
       Texinfo – the GNU help system. 
       KMS – a 1980s successor to ZOG developed as a commercial product. 
       Storyspace – a mid-1980s program for hypertext narrative. 
       Adobe's Portable Document Format – a widely used publication format for electronic documents. 
       Amigaguide – released on the Commodore Amiga Workbench 1990. 
       Windows Help – released with Windows 3.0 in 1990. 
       Wikis – aim to compensate for the lack of integrated editors in most Web browsers. Various wiki software have slightly different conventions for formatting, usually simpler than HTML. 
       PaperKiller – a document editor specifically designed for hypertext. Started in 1996 as IPer (educational project for ED-Media 1997). 
       XML with the XLink extension – a newer hypertext markup language that extends and expands capabilities introduced by HTML.
       
      Academic conferences 
      Among the top academic conferences for new research in hypertext is the annual ACM Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia. Although not exclusively about hypertext, the World Wide Web series of conferences, organized by IW3C2, include many papers of interest. There is a list on the Web with links to all conferences in the series.  
      Hypertext fiction 
      
      
       Main article: Hypertext fiction
       
      Hypertext writing has developed its own style of fiction, coinciding with the growth and proliferation of hypertext development software and the emergence of electronic networks. Two software programs specifically designed for literary hypertext, Storyspace and Intermedia became available in the 1990s. 
      An advantage of writing a narrative using hypertext technology is that the meaning of the story can be conveyed through a sense of spatiality and perspective that is arguably unique to digitally networked environments. An author's creative use of nodes, the self-contained units of meaning in a hypertextual narrative, can play with the reader's orientation and add meaning to the text. 
      One of the most successful computer games, Myst, was first written in Hypercard. The game was constructed as a series of Ages, each Age consisting of a separate Hypercard stack. The full stack of the game consists of over 2500 cards. In some ways, Myst redefined interactive fiction, using puzzles and exploration as a replacement for hypertextual narrative. 
      Critics of hypertext claim that it inhibits the old, linear, reader experience by creating several different tracks to read on, and that this in turn contributes to a postmodernist fragmentation of worlds. In some cases, hypertext may be detrimental to the development of appealing stories (in the case of hypertext Gamebooks), where ease of linking fragments may lead to non-cohesive or incomprehensible narratives. However, they do see value in its ability to present several different views on the same subject in a simple way. This echoes the arguments of 'medium theorists' like Marshall McLuhan who look at the social and psychological impacts of the media. New media can become so dominant in public culture that they effectively create a "paradigm shift" as people have shifted their perceptions, understanding of the world, and ways of interacting with the world and each other in relation to new technologies and media. So hypertext signifies a change from linear, structured and hierarchical forms of representing and understanding the world into fractured, decentralized and changeable media based on the technological concept of hypertext links. 
      In the 1990s, women and feminist artists took advantage of hypertext and produced dozens of works. Linda Dement’s Cyberflesh Girlmonster a hypertext CD-ROM that incorporates images of women’s body parts and remixes them to create new monstrous yet beautiful shapes. Dr. Caitlin Fisher’s award-winning online hypertext novella “‘These Waves of Girls“ is set in three time periods of the protagonist exploring polymorphous perversity enacted in her queer identity through memory. The story is written as a reflection diary of the interconnected memories of childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. It consists of an associated multi-modal collection of nodes includes linked text, still and moving images, manipulable images, animations, and sound clips.  
      Forms of hypertext 
      There are various forms of hypertext, each of which are structured differently. Below are four of the existing forms of hypertext:  
      
       Axial hypertexts are the most simple in structure. They are situated along an axis in a linear style. These hypertexts have a straight path from beginning to end and are fairly easy for the reader to follow. An example of an axial hypertext is The Virtual Disappearance of Miriam. 
       Arborescent hypertexts are more complex than the axial form. They have a branching structure which resembles a tree. These hypertexts have one beginning but many possible endings. The ending that the reader finishes on depends on their decisions whilst reading the text. This is much like gamebook novels that allow readers to choose their own ending. 
       Networked hypertexts are more complex still than the two previous forms of hypertext. They consist of an interconnected system of nodes with no dominant axis of orientation. Unlike the arborescent form, networked hypertexts do not have any designated beginning or any designated endings. An example of a networked hypertext is Shelley Jackson's Patchwork Girl. 
       Layered hypertext consist of two layers of linked pages. Each layer is doubly linked sequentially and a page in the top layer is doubly linked with a corresponding page in the bottom layer. The top layer contains plain text, the bottom multimedia layer provides photos, sounds and video. In the Dutch historical novel De man met de hoed&nbsp; designed as layered hypertext in 2006 by Eisjen Schaaf, Pauline van de Ven, and Paul Vitányi, the structure is proposed to enhance the atmosphere of the time, to enrich the text with research and family archive material and to enable readers to insert memories of their own while preserving tension and storyline.
       
      See also 
      
       Timeline of hypertext technology 
       Cybertext 
       Distributed Data Management Architecture 
       HTML (HyperText Markup Language) 
       Hyperwords 
       HTTP 
       Hyperkino
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Hypertext" (definition). Marriam-webster Free Online Dictionary. Retrieved February 26, 2015.  
        ^ 
          Lehman, Jeffrey; Phelps, Shirelle (2005). West's Encyclopedia of American Law, Vol. 9 (2&nbsp;ed.). Detroit: Thomson/Gale. p.&nbsp;451. ISBN&nbsp;9780787663742.  
        ^ http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=806036 Complex information processing: a file structure for the complex, the changing and the indeterminate  
        ^ 
          Rettberg, Jill Walker. "Complex Information Processing: A File Structure for the Complex, the Changing, and the Indeterminate". Electronic Literature as a Model of Creativity and Innovation in Practice.  
        ^ 
          Bolter, Jay David; Joyce, Michael (1987), "Hypertext and creative writing", Proceeding of the ACM conference on Hypertext - HYPERTEXT '87, The Association for Computing Machinery, pp.&nbsp;41–50, doi:10.1145/317426.317431, ISBN&nbsp;089791340X, S2CID&nbsp;207627394.  
        ^ a b 
          Gary Wolf (June 1995). "The Curse of Xanadu". WIRED. Vol.&nbsp;3, no.&nbsp;6.  
        ^ 
          Joyce, MI, Did Ted Nelson first use the word "hypertext" (sic), meaning fast editing" at Vassar College?, Vassar, archived from the original on 2013-03-24, retrieved 2011-01-03  
        ^ Belinda Barnet. Memory Machines: The Evolution of Hypertext, 2013, pp.103-106.  
        ^ 
          Barnet, Belinda (2010-01-01). "Crafting the User-Centered Document Interface: The Hypertext Editing System (HES) and the File Retrieval and Editing System (FRESS)". Digital Humanities Quarterly. 4 (1).  
        ^ 
          "Where meter meets mainframe: An early experiment teaching poetry with computers | News from Brown". news.brown.edu. Retrieved 2016-05-24.  
        ^ (in Italian) Andrea Tornielli, Padre Busa, il gesuita che ha inventato l'ipertesto, La Stampa - VaticanInsider, 11/08/2011  
        ^ Matthew Zepelin Computers and the Catholic Mind: Religion, Technology, and Social Criticism in the Postwar United States, July 5, 2014  
        ^ Morto padre Busa, è stato il pioniere dell'informatica linguistica, Corriere del Veneto, 15. August 2011  
        ^ "Religion: Sacred Electronics", Time, 31 December 1956, 15 August 2011  
        ^ Thomas N. Winter, «&nbsp;Roberto Busa, S.J., and the Invention of the Machine-Generated Condordance&nbsp;», Digital commons, University of Nebraska   
        ^ Hawisher, Gail E., Paul LeBlanc, Charles Moran, and Cynthia L. Selfe (1996). Computers and the Teaching of Writing in American Higher Education, 1979–1994: A History Ablex Publishing, Norwood NJ, p. 213  
        ^ a b 
          WorldWideWeb: Proposal for a HyperText Project, The World Wide Web consortium.  
        ^ 
          SIGWEB Hypertext Conference, ACM, archived from the original on 2008-10-24.  
        ^ 
          IW3C2.  
        ^ 
          "Conferences", IW3C2.  
        ^ 
          Parrish, Jeremy. "When SCUMM Ruled the Earth". 1UP.com. Retrieved 2008-05-02.  
        ^ 
          ¿Es el hipertexto una bendición o un...?  (in Spanish), Biblum literaria, Jul 2008.  
        ^ 
          The Game of Reading an Electronic Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, CA: U Calgary.  
        ^ Green 2001, p.&nbsp;15.  
        ^ 
          "Welkom". demanmetdehoed.nl.  
       
       
      Documentary film 
      
       Andries van Dam: Hypertext: an Educational Experiment in English and Computer Science at Brown University. Brown University, Providence, RI, U.S. 1974, Run time 15:16, Hypertext at IMDb, Full Movie on the Internet Archive
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
        Green, Lelia (2001), Technoculture: From Alphabet to Cybersex, Allen &amp; Unwin Ep, ISBN&nbsp;978-1-86508048-2.
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Engelbart, Douglas C (1962). "Augmenting Human Intellect: A Conceptual Framework". AFOSR-3233 Summary Report, SRI Project No. 3579. Archived from the original on 2011-05-04. Retrieved 2011-05-20. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       
        Nelson, Theodor H. (September 1965). "Complex information processing: a file structure for the complex, the changing and the indeterminate". ACM/CSC-ER Proceedings of the 1965 20th national conference. 
       
        Nelson, Theodor H. (September 1970). "No More Teachers' Dirty Looks". Computer Decisions. 
       
        ——— (1973). "A Conceptual framework for man-machine everything". AFIPS Conference Proceedings. Vol.&nbsp;42. pp.&nbsp;M22–23. 
       
        Yankelovich, Nicole; Landow, George P; Cody, David (1987). "Creating hypermedia materials for English literature students". SIGCUE Outlook. 20 (3). 
       
        Heim, Michael (1987). Electric Language: A Philosophical Study of Word Processing. New Haven: Yale University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-300-07746-9. 
       
        van Dam, Andries (July 1988). "Hypertext: '87 keynote address". Communications of the ACM. 31 (7): 887–95. doi:10.1145/48511.48519. S2CID&nbsp;489007. 
       
        Conklin, J. (1987). "Hypertext: An Introduction and Survey". Computer. 20 (9): 17–41. doi:10.1109/MC.1987.1663693. S2CID&nbsp;9188803. 
       
        Byers, T. J. (April 1987). "Built by association". PC World. 5: 244–51. 
       
        Crane, Gregory (1988). "Extending the boundaries of instruction and research". T.H.E. Journal (Technological Horizons in Education) (Macintosh Special Issue): 51–54. 
       
        Nelson, Theodor H. (1992). Literary Machines 93.1. Sausalito, CA: Mindful Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-89347-062-3. 
       
        Moulthrop, Stuart; Kaplan, Nancy (1994). "They became what they beheld: The futility of resistance in the space of electronic writing". Literacy and computers: The complications of teaching and learning with technology. pp.&nbsp;220–237. 
       
        Cicconi, Sergio (1999). "Hypertextuality". Mediapolis. Berlino &amp; New York: Ed. Sam Inkinen &amp; De Gruyter: 21–43. 
       
        Bolter, Jay David (2001). Writing Space: Computers, Hypertext, and the Remediation of Print. New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8058-2919-8. 
       
        Landow, George (2006). Hypertext 3.0 Critical Theory and New Media in an Era of Globalization: Critical Theory and New Media in a Global Era (Parallax, Re-Visions of Culture and Society). Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8018-8257-9. 
       
        Buckland, Michael (2006). Emanuel Goldberg and His Knowledge Machine. Libraries Unlimited. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-313-31332-5. 
       
        Ensslin, Astrid (2007). Canonizing Hypertext: Explorations and Constructions. London: Continuum. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8264-9558-7. 
       Barnet, Belinda. (2013) Memory Machines: The Evolution of Hypertext (Anthem Press; 2013) A technological history of hypertext,
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up hypertext in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hypertext.
         
       
       
      
       Hypertext: Behind the Hype 
       Reviving Advanced Hypertext, whether and how concepts from hypertext research can be used on the Web. 
       Riccardo Ridi. 2018. "Hypertext" In ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, eds. Birger Hjørland and Claudio Gnoli.
       
      Hypertext conferences 
      
       EdMedia + Innovate Learning, an international conference organized by the Association for the Advancement of Computing in Education. 
       HyperText - ACM Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Semantic Web
           
         
         
          Background
          
            
            
             Databases 
             Hypertext 
             Internet 
             Ontologies 
             Semantics 
             Semantic networks 
             World Wide Web
             
           
         
         
          Sub-topics
          
            
            
             Dataspaces 
             Hyperdata 
             Linked data 
             Rule-based systems
             
           
         
         
          Applications
          
            
            
             Semantic analytics 
             Semantic broker 
             Semantic computing 
             Semantic mapper 
             Semantic matching 
             Semantic publishing 
             Semantic reasoner 
             Semantic search 
             Semantic service-oriented architecture 
             Semantic wiki
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Collective intelligence 
             Description logic 
             Folksonomy 
             Geotagging 
             Information architecture 
             Knowledge extraction 
             Knowledge management 
             Knowledge representation and reasoning 
             Library 2.0 
             Digital library 
             Digital humanities 
             Metadata 
             References 
             Topic map 
             Web 2.0 
             Web engineering 
             Web Science Trust
             
           
         
         
          Standards
          
           
           
            
             
              Syntax and supporting technologies
              
                
                
                 HTTP 
                 IRI 
                  
                   URI
                   
                 RDF 
                  
                   triples 
                   RDF/XML 
                   JSON-LD 
                   Turtle 
                   TriG 
                   Notation3 
                   N-Triples 
                   TriX (no W3C standard)
                   
                 RRID 
                 SPARQL 
                 XML 
                 Semantic HTML
                 
               
             
             
              Schemas, ontologies and rules
              
                
                
                 Common Logic 
                 OWL 
                 RDFS 
                 Rule Interchange Format 
                 Semantic Web Rule Language 
                 ALPS 
                 SHACL
                 
               
             
             
              Semantic annotation
              
                
                
                 eRDF 
                 GRDDL 
                 Microdata 
                 Microformats 
                 RDFa 
                 SAWSDL 
                 Facebook Platform
                 
               
             
             
              Common vocabularies
              
                
                
                 DOAP 
                 Dublin Core 
                 FOAF 
                 Schema.org 
                 SIOC 
                 SKOS
                 
               
             
             
              Microformat vocabularies
              
                
                
                 hAtom 
                 hCalendar 
                 hCard 
                 hProduct 
                 hRecipe 
                 hReview
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hypertext&amp;oldid=1068386790"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Hypertext
       American inventions
       Computer-related introductions in 1945
       Ted Nelson
       1960s neologisms
       Writing
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with Italian-language sources (it)
       CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Norsk bokmål
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       吴语
       Yorùbá
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 28 January 2022, at 04:36&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
