
 
  
   
  Nicholas J. Belkin - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Nicholas J. Belkin 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Nicholas J. Belkin
          
        
        
         Born
         1942
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Anomalous State of Knowledge for Information Retrieval
        
        
         Awards
         Gerard Salton Award (2015)
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer Science
        
        
         Institutions
         Rutgers University
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Nicholas J. Belkin is a professor at the School of Communication and Information at Rutgers University. Among the main themes of his research are digital libraries; information-seeking behaviors; and interaction between humans and information retrieval systems. Belkin is best known for his work on human-centered Information Retrieval and the hypothesis of Anomalous State of Knowledge (ASK). Belkin realized that in many cases, users of search systems are unable to precisely formulate what they need. They miss some vital knowledge to formulate their queries. In such cases it is more suitable to attempt to describe a user's anomalous state of knowledge than to ask the user to specify her/his need as a request to the system. 
      Belkin was the chair of SIGIR in 1995-99, and the president of American Society for Information Science and Technology in 2005. In 2015, Belkin received the Gerard Salton Award.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Works 
        3 Awards and published works 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Nicholas Belkin studied Slavic Philology at the University of Washington, graduating in 1968. He graduated from the same college in Library Science 2 years later (1970), and read his doctoral thesis in 1977 in the University of London. He worked in the Information Science department of this university from 1975 to 1985. That year, he signed for the Faculty of Communication and Information at Rutgers University (USA). 
      He has been a visiting professor at Western Ontario University (Canada) and Free University of Berlin. He has been a visiting researcher at the National University of Singapore in 1996. He has given more than 200 lectures around the world. 
      He has been president of Association for Computing Machinery SIGIR (Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval) during the period 1995-1999, and president of the American Society of Information Science and Technology (ASIST) in 2005. 
      Nicholas Belkin has served on numerous editorial boards of numerous scientific journals. Among the most prestigious are "Information Processing and Management" and "Information Retrieval".  
      Works 
      Nicholas Belkin has approached information retrieval from the so-called  cognitive models , that is, those focused on users who access document systems. Belkin approached his research from 3 basic lines:  
      
       Empirical studies on the behavior of the user who searches information. 
       The creation of expert systems models. 
       Design of interfaces friendly for the user.
       
      In 1977, Belkin read his thesis where he developed a new theory of the concept  documentary information . This would be a structure that would allow the user to transform his  anomalous state of knowledge  (Anomalous State of Knowledge or ASK), when the need for information is satisfied, producing an adequate connection between the two ends of the documentary process: the producer and the receiver or user. 
      For Belkin, the purpose towards which Documentation works is to make this effective communication possible, which would imply the study of documentary information in human and cognitive communication systems, the connection between this information and its producer, the connection between information and user, gives the idea of the requested information and the effectiveness between information and document and its transmission process. 
      Belkin concludes that the concept of documentary information is the combination of a cognitive communication system, a structural representation of knowledge, the implementation of the project via user when he recognizes the need for information (ASK9, the meaning of the text ( message) and the interest in solving the problem of information science. This theory has also been developed by Oddy and Brooks. 
      Nicholas Belkin proposed a novel cognitive model of information retrieval, referred to as  'episodic' . In this, Belkin defines a set of interactions that occur between the user and the system during the consultation to "conceptualize, label and transcribe the need for information, as well as make relevant judgments about one or more documents." The components would be the same as those used in the traditional model: navigation (browsing), query (querying), display, indexing, representation and matching. 
      This model pays very little attention to the structure of documents and their retrieval, because it focuses on the anomalous state of knowledge of the individual, how to represent it, how to retrieve it, so it is based on the storage, retrieval and interaction of the search strategy.  
      Awards and published works 
      Nicholas Belkin has been awarded numerous times, obtaining in 2003 the ASIST Award for Academic Merit, and the Gerard Salton Award in 2015. 
      Belkin has published numerous articles in the most prestigious magazines in the field of Information and Documentation, some awarded by the ASIST. He is also the author of the book:  Interaction in Information Systems: A Review of Research from Document Retrieval to Knowledge- Based Systems  (1985) co-authored with Alina Vickery.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Belkin, N.J. "Anomalous states of knowledge as a basis for information retrieval" (PDF). The Canadian Journal of Information Science, 5, 1980, pages 133-143.  
         ^ 
           Belkin, N.J., Oddy, R.N., Brooks, H.M. (1982). "ASK for information retrieval: Part I. Background and theory". Journal of Documentation. 38 (2): 61–71. doi:10.1108/eb026722.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           "ASIS, Past presidents". Archived from the original on 2011-05-18. Retrieved 2007-05-18.  
         ^ 
           "Salton Award Lecture: People, Interacting with Information by Nicholas J. Belkin in SIGIR 2015". Archived from the original on 2015-08-08. Retrieved 2015-08-19.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Nicholas J. Belkin's home page at Rutgers 
       Personal page of Nicholas Belkin 
       Bibliography
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States 
             Croatia 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan) 
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nicholas_J._Belkin&amp;oldid=1015127135"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       American computer scientists
       Living people
       Rutgers University faculty
       1942 births
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Čeština
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 March 2021, at 19:29&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
