
 
  
   
  Natural-language user interface - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Natural-language user interface 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Natural language user interface)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Natural-language user interface (LUI or NLUI) is a type of computer human interface where linguistic phenomena such as verbs, phrases and clauses act as UI controls for creating, selecting and modifying data in software applications. 
      In interface design, natural-language interfaces are sought after for their speed and ease of use, but most suffer the challenges to understanding wide varieties of ambiguous input. Natural-language interfaces are an active area of study in the field of natural-language processing and computational linguistics. An intuitive general natural-language interface is one of the active goals of the Semantic Web. 
      Text interfaces are "natural" to varying degrees. Many formal (un-natural) programming languages incorporate idioms of natural human language. Likewise, a traditional keyword search engine could be described as a "shallow" natural-language user interface.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 History 
        3 Challenges 
        4 Uses and applications 
          
          4.1 Ubiquity 
          4.2 Wolfram Alpha 
          4.3 Siri 
          4.4 Others 
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        
       
      Overview 
      In natural-language search engine would in theory find targeted answers to user questions (as opposed to a keyword search). For example, when confronted with a question of the form 'which U.S. state has the highest income tax?', conventional search engines ignore the question and instead search on the keywords 'state', 'income' and 'tax'. Natural-language search, on the other hand, attempts to use natural-language processing to understand the nature of the question and then to search and return a subset of the web that contains the answer to the question. If it works, results would have higher relevance than results from a keyword search engine, due to the question being included.  
      History 
      Prototype Nl interfaces had already appeared in the late sixties and early seventies.  
      
       SHRDLU, a natural-language interface that manipulates blocks in a virtual "blocks world" 
       Lunar, a natural-language interface to a database containing chemical analyses of Apollo-11 moon rocks by William A. Woods. 
       Chat-80 transformed English questions into Prolog expressions, which were evaluated against the Prolog database. The code of Chat-80 was circulated widely, and formed the basis of several other experimental Nl interfaces. An online demo is available on the LPA website. 
       ELIZA, written at MIT by Joseph Weizenbaum between 1964 and 1966, mimicked a psychotherapist and was operated by processing users' responses to scripts. Using almost no information about human thought or emotion, the DOCTOR script sometimes provided a startlingly human-like interaction. An online demo is available on the LPA website. 
       Janus is also one of the few systems to support temporal questions. 
       Intellect from Trinzic (formed by the merger of AICorp and Aion). 
       BBN’s Parlance built on experience from the development of the Rus and Irus systems. 
       IBM Languageaccess 
       Q&amp;A from Symantec. 
       Datatalker from Natural Language Inc. 
       Loqui from BIM Systems. 
       English Wizard from Linguistic Technology Corporation.
       
      Challenges 
      Natural-language interfaces have in the past led users to anthropomorphize the computer, or at least to attribute more intelligence to machines than is warranted. On the part of the user, this has led to unrealistic expectations of the capabilities of the system. Such expectations will make it difficult to learn the restrictions of the system if users attribute too much capability to it, and will ultimately lead to disappointment when the system fails to perform as expected as was the case in the AI winter of the 1970s and 80s. 
      A 1995 paper titled 'Natural Language Interfaces to Databases – An Introduction', describes some challenges:  
      
       
        Modifier attachment
        
       
        The request "List all employees in the company with a driving licence" is ambiguous unless you know that companies can't have driving licences.
        
       
        Conjunction and disjunction
        
       
        "List all applicants who live in California and Arizona" is ambiguous unless you know that a person can't live in two places at once.
        
       
        Anaphora resolution
        
       
        resolve what a user means by 'he', 'she' or 'it', in a self-referential query.
       
       
      Other goals to consider more generally are the speed and efficiency of the interface, in all algorithms these two points are the main point that will determine if some methods are better than others and therefore have greater success in the market. In addition, localisation across multiple language sites requires extra consideration - this is based on differing sentence structure and language syntax variations between most languages. 
      Finally, regarding the methods used, the main problem to be solved is creating a general algorithm that can recognize the entire spectrum of different voices, while disregarding nationality, gender or age. The significant differences between the extracted features - even from speakers who says the same word or phrase - must be successfully overcome.  
      Uses and applications 
      The natural-language interface gives rise to technology used for many different applications. 
      Some of the main uses are:  
      
       Dictation, is the most common use for automated speech recognition (ASR) systems today. This includes medical transcriptions, legal and business dictation, and general word processing. In some cases special vocabularies are used to increase the accuracy of the system. 
       Command and control, ASR systems that are designed to perform functions and actions on the system are defined as command and control systems. Utterances like "Open Netscape" and "Start a new xterm" will do just that. 
       Telephony, some PBX/Voice Mail systems allow callers to speak commands instead of pressing buttons to send specific tones. 
       Wearables, because inputs are limited for wearable devices, speaking is a natural possibility. 
       Medical, disabilities, many people have difficulty typing due to physical limitations such as repetitive strain injuries (RSI), muscular dystrophy, and many others. For example, people with difficulty hearing could use a system connected to their telephone to convert a caller's speech to text. 
       Embedded applications, some new cellular phones include C&amp;C speech recognition that allow utterances such as "call home". This may be a major factor in the future of automatic speech recognition and Linux. 
       Software development: An integrated development environment can embed natural-language interfaces to help developers.
       
      Below are named and defined some of the applications that use natural-language recognition, and so have integrated utilities listed above.  
      Ubiquity 
      
      
       Main article: Ubiquity (Firefox)
       
      Ubiquity, an add-on for Mozilla Firefox, is a collection of quick and easy natural-language-derived commands that act as mashups of web services, thus allowing users to get information and relate it to current and other webpages.  
      Wolfram Alpha 
      
      
       Main article: Wolfram Alpha
       
      Wolfram Alpha is an online service that answers factual queries directly by computing the answer from structured data, rather than providing a list of documents or web pages that might contain the answer as a search engine would. It was announced in March 2009 by Stephen Wolfram, and was released to the public on May 15, 2009.  
      Siri 
      
      
       Main article: Siri (software)
       
      Siri is an intelligent personal assistant application integrated with operating system iOS. The application uses natural language processing to answer questions and make recommendations. 
      Siri's marketing claims include that it adapts to a user's individual preferences over time and personalizes results, and performs tasks such as making dinner reservations while trying to catch a cab.  
      Others 
      
       Ask.com – The original idea behind Ask Jeeves (Ask.com) was traditional keyword searching with an ability to get answers to questions posed in everyday, natural language. The current Ask.com still supports this, with added support for math, dictionary, and conversion questions. 
       Braina – Braina is a natural language interface for Windows OS that allows to type or speak English language sentences to perform a certain action or find information.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Screenshot of GNOME DO classic interface.
        
       
       
      
       GNOME Do – Allows for quick finding miscellaneous artifacts of GNOME environment (applications, Evolution and Pidgin contacts, Firefox bookmarks, Rhythmbox artists and albums, and so on) and execute the basic actions on them (launch, open, email, chat, play, etc.). 
       hakia – hakia was an Internet search engine. The company invented an alternative new infrastructure to indexing that used SemanticRank algorithm, a solution mix from the disciplines of ontological semantics, fuzzy logic, computational linguistics, and mathematics. hakia closed in 2014. 
       Lexxe – Lexxe was an Internet search engine that used natural-language processing for queries (semantic search). Searches could be made with keywords, phrases, and questions, such as "How old is Wikipedia?" Lexxe closed its search engine services in 2015. 
       Pikimal – Pikimal used natural-language tied to user preference to make search recommendations by template. Pikimal closed in 2015. 
       Powerset – On May 11, 2008, the company unveiled a tool for searching a fixed subset of Wikipedia using conversational phrases rather than keywords. On July 1, 2008, it was purchased by Microsoft. 
       Q-go – The Q-go technology provides relevant answers to users in response to queries on a company’s internet website or corporate intranet, formulated in natural sentences or keyword input alike. Q-go was acquired by RightNow Technologies in 2011. 
       Yebol – Yebol was a vertical "decision" search engine that had developed a knowledge-based, semantic search platform. Yebol's artificial intelligence human intelligence-infused algorithms automatically clustered and categorized search results, web sites, pages and content that it presented in a visually indexed format that is more aligned with initial human intent. Yebol used association, ranking and clustering algorithms to analyze related keywords or web pages. Yebol integrated natural-language processing, metasynthetic-engineered open complex systems, and machine algorithms with human knowledge for each query to establish a web directory that actually 'learns', using correlation, clustering and classification algorithms to automatically generate the knowledge query, which was retained and regenerated forward.
       
      See also 
      
       Conversational user interface 
       Natural user interface 
       Natural-language programming 
       Voice user interface 
       Chatbot, a computer program that simulates human conversations 
       Noisy text 
       Question answering 
       Selection-based search 
       Semantic search 
       Semantic query 
       Semantic Web
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Hill, I. (1983). "Natural language versus computer language." In M. Sime and M. Coombs (Eds.) Designing for Human-Computer Communication. Academic Press.  
         ^ a b Natural Language Interfaces to Databases – An Introduction, I. Androutsopoulos, G.D. Ritchie, P. Thanisch, Department of Artificial Intelligence, University of Edinburgh  
         ^ "Chat-80 demo". Archived from the original on 11 November 2016. Retrieved 29 January 2018.  
         ^ 
           "ELIZA demo". Archived from the original on 26 November 2016. Retrieved 29 January 2018.  
         ^ 
           Kimmig, Markus; Monperrus, Martin; Mezini, Mira (2011). "Querying source code with natural language". 2011 26th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE 2011). pp.&nbsp;376–379. arXiv:1205.6361. doi:10.1109/ase.2011.6100076. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4577-1639-3. S2CID&nbsp;6898947.  
         ^ 
           Johnson, Bobbie (2009-03-09). "British search engine 'could rival Google'". The Guardian. Retrieved 2009-03-09.  
         ^ 
           "So Much for A Quiet Launch". Wolfram Alpha Blog. 2009-05-08. Retrieved 2009-10-20.  
         ^ 
           "iOS - Siri". Apple. Retrieved 29 January 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Braina - Artificial Intelligence Software for Windows". www.brainasoft.com. Retrieved 29 January 2018.  
         ^ Ubuntu 10.04 Add/Remove Applications description for GNOME Do  
         ^ 
           Helft, Miguel (May 12, 2008). "Powerset Debuts With Search of Wikipedia". The New York Times.  
         ^ 
           Johnson, Mark (July 1, 2008). "Microsoft to Acquire Powerset". Powerset Blog. Archived from the original on February 25, 2009.  
         ^ Humphries, Matthew. "Yebol.com steps into the search market" Archived 2012-03-15 at the Wayback Machine Geek.com. 31 July 2009.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Internet search
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Web search engine (List) 
             Metasearch engine 
             Multimedia search 
             Collaborative search engine 
             Cross-language search 
             Local search 
             Vertical search 
             Social search 
             Image search 
             Audio search 
             Video search engine 
             Enterprise search 
             Semantic search 
             Natural language search engine 
             Voice search
             
           
         
         
          Tools
          
            
            
             Search by sound 
             Search engine marketing 
             Search engine optimization 
             Evaluation measures 
             Search oriented architecture 
             Selection-based search
             
            
             Document retrieval 
             Text mining 
             Web crawler 
             Multisearch 
             Federated search 
             Search aggregator 
             Index/Web indexing 
             Focused crawler 
             Spider trap 
             Robots exclusion standard 
             Distributed web crawling 
             Web archiving 
             Website mirroring software 
             Web query 
             Web query classification
             
           
         
         
          Protocolsand standards
          
            
            
             Z39.50 
             Search/Retrieve Web Service 
             Search/Retrieve via URL 
             OpenSearch 
             Representational State Transfer 
             Website Parse Template 
             Wide area information server
             
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Search engine 
             Desktop search 
             Online search
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Computable knowledge
           
         
         
          Topics andconcepts
          
            
            
             Alphabet of human thought 
             Authority control 
             Automated reasoning 
             Commonsense knowledge 
             Commonsense reasoning 
             Computability 
             Discovery system 
             Formal system 
             Inference engine 
             Knowledge base 
              
               Personal knowledge base
               
             Knowledge-based systems 
             Knowledge engineering 
             Knowledge extraction 
             Knowledge graph 
             Knowledge representation 
             Knowledge retrieval 
             Library classification 
             Logic programming 
             Ontology 
             Question answering 
             Semantic reasoner
             
           
         
         
          Proposals andimplementations
          
            
            
             Zairja 
             Ars Magna&nbsp;(1300) 
             An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language&nbsp;(1688) 
             Calculus ratiocinator and characteristica universalis&nbsp;(1700) 
             Dewey Decimal Classification&nbsp;(1876) 
             Begriffsschrift&nbsp;(1879) 
             Mundaneum&nbsp;(1910) 
             Logical atomism&nbsp;(1918) 
             Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus&nbsp;(1921) 
             Hilbert's program&nbsp;(1920s) 
             Incompleteness theorem&nbsp;(1931) 
             World Brain&nbsp;(1938) 
             Memex&nbsp;(1945) 
             General Problem Solver&nbsp;(1959) 
             Prolog&nbsp;(1972) 
             Cyc&nbsp;(1984) 
             Semantic Web&nbsp;(2001) 
             Wikipedia&nbsp;(2001) 
             Evi&nbsp;(2007) 
             Wolfram Alpha&nbsp;(2009) 
             Watson&nbsp;(2011) 
             Siri&nbsp;(2011) 
             Google Knowledge Graph&nbsp;(2012) 
             Wikidata&nbsp;(2012) 
             Cortana&nbsp;(2014) 
             Viv&nbsp;(2016)
             
           
         
         
          In fiction
          
            
            
             The Engine (Gulliver's Travels, 1726) 
             Joe ("A Logic Named Joe", 1946) 
             The Librarian (Snow Crash, 1992) 
             Dr. Know (A.I. (film), 2001) 
             Waterhouse (The Baroque Cycle, 2003)
             
            See also: Logic machines in fiction and List of fictional computers  
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Natural-language_user_interface&amp;oldid=1071010447"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       User interfaces
       Artificial intelligence applications
       Natural language processing
       Computational linguistics
       Information retrieval techniques
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2015
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Español
       Euskara
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 11:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
