
 
  
   
  Association for Computing Machinery - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Association for Computing Machinery 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       International learned society for computing
       
        
      
      
       
        Association for Computing Machinery
       
       
        
         
        
        
         Formation
         1947; 75&nbsp;years ago&nbsp;(1947)
        
        
         Type
         501(c)(3) not-for-profit membership corporation
        
        
         Headquarters
         1601 Broadway, Times Square, New York City
        
        
         
          
           Membership 
          
         100,000
        
        
         
          
           President
          
         Gabriele Kotsis
        
        
         Website
         acm.org
        
       
       
      The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) is a US-based international learned society for computing. It was founded in 1947 and is the world's largest scientific and educational computing society. The ACM is a non-profit professional membership group, claiming nearly 100,000 student and professional members as of 2019. Its headquarters are in New York City. 
      The ACM is an umbrella organization for academic and scholarly interests in computer science (informatics). Its motto is "Advancing Computing as a Science &amp; Profession".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Activities 
        3 Services 
          
          3.1 Publications 
           
        4 Portal and Digital Library 
        5 Membership grades 
          
          5.1 Fellows 
          5.2 Distinguished Members 
          5.3 Senior Members 
          5.4 Distinguished Speakers 
           
        6 Chapters 
          
          6.1 Special Interest Groups 
           
        7 Conferences 
        8 Awards 
        9 Leadership 
        10 Infrastructure 
        11 ACM Council on Women in Computing 
          
          11.1 Athena Lectures 
           
        12 Cooperation 
        13 Criticism 
        14 See also 
        15 References 
        16 External links 
        
       
      History 
      The ACM was founded in 1947 under the name Eastern Association for Computing Machinery, which was changed the following year to the Association for Computing Machinery.  
      Activities 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         ACM headquarters are located at 1601 Broadway, Times Square, New York City.
        
       
       
      ACM is organized into over 171 local chapters and 37 Special Interest Groups (SIGs), through which it conducts most of its activities. Additionally, there are over 500 college and university chapters. The first student chapter was founded in 1961 at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette 
      Many of the SIGs, such as SIGGRAPH, SIGDA, SIGPLAN, SIGCSE and SIGCOMM, sponsor regular conferences, which have become famous as the dominant venue for presenting innovations in certain fields. The groups also publish a large number of specialized journals, magazines, and newsletters. 
      ACM also sponsors other computer science related events such as the worldwide ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), and has sponsored some other events such as the chess match between Garry Kasparov and the IBM Deep Blue computer.  
      Services 
      Publications 
      
      
       Main category: Association for Computing Machinery publications
       
      ACM publishes over 50 journals including the prestigious Journal of the ACM, and two general magazines for computer professionals, Communications of the ACM (also known as Communications or CACM) and Queue. Other publications of the ACM include:  
      
       ACM XRDS, formerly "Crossroads", was redesigned in 2010 and is the most popular student computing magazine in the US. 
       ACM Interactions, an interdisciplinary HCI publication focused on the connections between experiences, people and technology, and the third largest ACM publication. 
       ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 
       Computers in Entertainment (CIE) 
       ACM Journal on Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems (JETC) 
       ACM Special Interest Group: Computers and Society (SIGCAS)  
       A number of journals, specific to subfields of computer science, titled ACM Transactions. Some of the more notable transactions include: 
        
         ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS) 
         IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (TCBB) 
         ACM Transactions on Computational Logic (TOCL) 
         ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 
         ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) 
         ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 
         ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS) 
         ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications (TOMM) 
         IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON) 
         ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS)
        
       
      Although Communications no longer publishes primary research, and is not considered a prestigious venue, many of the great debates and results in computing history have been published in its pages. 
      ACM has made almost all of its publications available to paid subscribers online at its Digital Library and also has a Guide to Computing Literature. Individual members additionally have access to Safari Books Online and Books24x7. ACM also offers insurance, online courses, and other services to its members. 
      In 1997, ACM Press published Wizards and Their Wonders: Portraits in Computing (ISBN&nbsp;0897919602), written by Christopher Morgan, with new photographs by Louis Fabian Bachrach. The book is a collection of historic and current portrait photographs of figures from the computer industry.  
      Portal and Digital Library 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The neutrality of this section is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (December 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The ACM Portal is an online service of the ACM. Its core are two main sections: ACM Digital Library and the ACM Guide to Computing Literature. 
      The ACM Digital Library is the full-text collection of all articles published by the ACM in its articles, magazines and conference proceedings. The Guide is a bibliography in computing with over one million entries. The ACM Digital Library contains a comprehensive archive starting in the 1950s of the organization's journals, magazines, newsletters and conference proceedings. Online services include a forum called Ubiquity and Tech News digest. There is an extensive underlying bibliographic database containing key works of all genres from all major publishers of computing literature. This secondary database is a rich discovery service known as The ACM Guide to Computing Literature. 
      ACM adopted a hybrid Open Access (OA) publishing model in 2013. Authors who do not choose to pay the OA fee must grant ACM publishing rights by either a copyright transfer agreement or a publishing license agreement. 
      ACM was a "green" publisher before the term was invented. Authors may post documents on their own websites and in their institutional repositories with a link back to the ACM Digital Library's permanently maintained Version of Record. 
      All metadata in the Digital Library is open to the world, including abstracts, linked references and citing works, citation and usage statistics, as well as all functionality and services. Other than the free articles, the full-texts are accessed by subscription. 
      There is also a mounting challenge to the ACM's publication practices coming from the open access movement. Some authors see a subscription business model as less relevant and publish on their home pages or on unreviewed sites like arXiv. Other organizations have sprung up which do their peer review entirely free and online, such as Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, Journal of Machine Learning Research and the Journal of Research and Practice in Information Technology.  
      Membership grades 
      
      
       Main category: Members of the Association for Computing Machinery
       
      In addition to student and regular members, ACM has several advanced membership grades to recognize those with multiple years of membership and "demonstrated performance that sets them apart from their peers". 
      The number of Fellows, Distinguished Members, and Senior Members cannot exceed 1%, 10%, and 25% of the total number of professional members, respectively.  
      Fellows 
      
      
       Main article: ACM Fellow
       
      
      
       For a more comprehensive list, see List of Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery.
       
      The ACM Fellows Program was established by Council of the Association for Computing Machinery in 1993 "to recognize and honor outstanding ACM members for their achievements in computer science and information technology and for their significant contributions to the mission of the ACM." There are 1310 Fellows as of 2020 out of about 100,000 members.  
      Distinguished Members 
      In 2006, ACM began recognizing two additional membership grades, one which was called Distinguished Members. Distinguished Members (Distinguished Engineers, Distinguished Scientists, and Distinguished Educators) have at least 15 years of professional experience and 5 years of continuous ACM membership and "have made a significant impact on the computing field". Note that in 2006 when the Distinguished Members first came out, one of the three levels was called "Distinguished Member" and was changed about two years later to "Distinguished Educator". Those who already had the Distinguished Member title had their titles changed to one of the other three titles. 
      List of Distinguished Members of the Association for Computing Machinery   
      Senior Members 
      Also in 2006, ACM began recognizing Senior Members. According to the ACM, "The Senior Members Grade recognizes those ACM members with at least 10 years of professional experience and 5 years of continuous Professional Membership who have demonstrated performance through technical leadership, and technical or professional contributions". Senior membership also requires 3 letters of reference  
      Distinguished Speakers 
      While not technically a membership grade, the ACM recognizes distinguished speakers on topics in computer science. A distinguished speaker is appointed for a three-year period. There are usually about 125 current distinguished speakers. The ACM website describes these people as 'Renowned International Thought Leaders'.  The distinguished speakers program (DSP) has been in existence for over 20 years and serves as an outreach program that brings renowned experts from Academia, Industry and Government to present on the topic of their expertise. The DSP is overseen by a committee   
      Chapters 
      ACM has three kinds of chapters: Special Interest Groups, Professional Chapters, and Student Chapters. 
      As of 2011, ACM has professional &amp; SIG Chapters in 56 countries. 
      As of 2014, there exist ACM student chapters in 41 different countries.  
      Special Interest Groups 
      
      
       Main category: Association for Computing Machinery Special Interest Groups
       
      
       
       
        SIGACCESS: Accessible Computing 
        SIGACT: Algorithms and Computation Theory 
        SIGAda: Ada Programming Language 
        SIGAI: Artificial Intelligence 
        SIGAPP: Applied Computing 
        SIGARCH: Computer Architecture 
        SIGBED: Embedded Systems 
        SIGBio: Bioinformatics 
        SIGCAS: Computers and Society 
        SIGCHI: Computer–Human Interaction 
        SIGCOMM: Data Communication 
        SIGCSE: Computer Science Education 
        SIGDA: Design Automation 
        SIGDOC: Design of Communication 
        SIGecom: Electronic Commerce 
        SIGEVO: Genetic and Evolutionary Computation 
        SIGGRAPH: Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques 
        SIGHPC: High Performance Computing 
        SIGIR: Information Retrieval 
        SIGITE: Information Technology Education 
        SIGKDD: Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 
        SIGLOG: Logic and Computation 
        SIGMETRICS: Measurement and Evaluation 
        SIGMICRO: Microarchitecture 
        SIGMIS: Management Information Systems 
        SIGMM: Multimedia 
        SIGMOBILE: Mobility of Systems, Users, Data and Computing 
        SIGMOD: Management of Data 
        SIGOPS: Operating Systems 
        SIGPLAN: Programming Languages 
        SIGSAC: Security, Audit, and Control 
        SIGSAM: Symbolic and Algebraic Manipulation 
        SIGSIM: Simulation and Modeling 
        SIGSOFT: Software Engineering 
        SIGSPATIAL: Spatial Information 
        SIGUCCS: University and College Computing Services 
        SIGWEB: Hypertext, Hypermedia, and Web
        
       
      Conferences 
      
      
       Main category: Association for Computing Machinery conferences
       
      ACM and its Special Interest Groups (SIGs) sponsors numerous conferences with 170 hosted worldwide in 2017. ACM Conferences page has an up-to-date complete list while a partial list is shown below. Most of the SIGs also have an annual conference. ACM conferences are often very popular publishing venues and are therefore very competitive. For example, the 2007 SIGGRAPH conference attracted about 30000 visitors, and CIKM only accepted 15% of the long papers that were submitted in 2005. 
        
      
       
       
        COMPASS: International Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies 
        ASPLOS: International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems 
        CHI: Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems 
        SIGCSE: SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education 
        CIKM: Conference on Information and Knowledge Management 
        DAC: Design Automation Conference 
        DEBS: Distributed Event Based Systems 
        FCRC: Federated Computing Research Conference 
        GECCO: Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference 
        SC: Supercomputing Conference 
        SIGGRAPH: International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques 
        Hypertext: Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia 
        JCDL: Joint Conference on Digital Libraries 
        TAPIA: Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference 
        SIGCOMM: ACM SIGCOMM Conference
        
       
      
       MobiHoc: International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing
       
      The ACM is a co–presenter and founding partner of the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing (GHC) with the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology. 
      Some conferences are hosted by ACM student branches; this includes Reflections Projections, which is hosted by UIUC ACM.. In addition, ACM sponsors regional conferences. Regional conferences facilitate increased opportunities for collaboration between nearby institutions and they are well attended. 
      For additional non-ACM conferences, see this list of computer science conferences.  
      Awards 
      The ACM presents or co–presents a number of awards for outstanding technical and professional achievements and contributions in computer science and information technology.  
      
       
       
        ACM A. M. Turing Award 
        ACM – AAAI Allen Newell Award 
        ACM Athena Lecturer Award 
        ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing 
        ACM Distinguished Service Award 
        ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award 
        ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award 
        ACM Fellowship, awarded annually since 1993 
        ACM Gordon Bell Prize 
        ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award 
        ACM – IEEE CS George Michael Memorial HPC Fellowships 
        ACM – IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award 
        ACM – IEEE Eckert-Mauchly Award 
        ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award 
        ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award 
        ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award 
        ACM Policy Award 
        ACM Presidential Award 
        ACM Prize in Computing (formerly: ACM – Infosys Foundation Award in the Computing Sciences) 
        ACM Programming Systems and Languages Paper Award 
        ACM Student Research Competition 
        ACM Software System Award 
        International Science and Engineering Fair 
        Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award 
        SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering
        
       
      Over 30 of ACM's Special Interest Groups also award individuals for their contributions with a few listed below.  
      
       
       
        ACM Alan D. Berenbaum Distinguished Service Award 
        ACM Maurice Wilkes Award 
        ISCA Influential Paper Award
        
       
      Leadership 
      
      
       See also: Category:Presidents of the Association for Computing Machinery
       
      The President of ACM for 2020–2022 is Gabriele Kotsis, Professor at the Johannes Kepler University Linz. She is successor of Cherri M. Pancake (2018–2020), Professor Emeritus at Oregon State University and Director of the Northwest Alliance for Computational Science and Engineering (NACSE); Vicki L. Hanson (2016–2018), Distinguished Professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology and Visiting Professor at the University of Dundee; Alexander L. Wolf (2014–2016), Dean of the Jack Baskin School of Engineering at the University of California, Santa Cruz; Vint Cerf (2012–2014), an American computer scientist who is recognized as one of "the fathers of the Internet"; Alain Chesnais (2010–2012), a French citizen living in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, where he runs his company named Visual Transitions; and Dame Wendy Hall of the University of Southampton, UK (2008–2010). 
      ACM is led by a Council consisting of the President, Vice-President, Treasurer, Past President, SIG Governing Board Chair, Publications Board Chair, three representatives of the SIG Governing Board, and seven Members–At–Large. This institution is often referred to simply as "Council" in Communications of the ACM.  
      Infrastructure 
      ACM has five "Boards" that make up various committees and subgroups, to help Headquarters staff maintain quality services and products. These boards are as follows:  
      
       Publications Board 
       SIG Governing Board 
       Education Board 
       Membership Services Board 
       Practitioners Board
       
      ACM Council on Women in Computing 
      ACM-W, the ACM council on women in computing, supports, celebrates, and advocates internationally for the full engagement of women in computing. ACM–W's main programs are regional celebrations of women in computing, ACM-W chapters, and scholarships for women CS students to attend research conferences. In India and Europe these activities are overseen by ACM-W India and ACM-W Europe respectively. ACM-W collaborates with organizations such as the Anita Borg Institute, the National Center for Women &amp; Information Technology (NCWIT), and Committee on the Status of Women in Computing Research (CRA-W).  
      Athena Lectures 
      The ACM-W gives an annual Athena Lecturer Award to honor outstanding women researchers who have made fundamental contributions to computer science. This program began in 2006. Speakers are nominated by SIG officers.  
      
       2006–2007: Deborah Estrin of UCLA 
       2007–2008: Karen Spärck Jones of Cambridge University 
       2008–2009: Shafi Goldwasser of MIT and the Weitzmann Institute of Science 
       2009–2010: Susan J. Eggers of the University of Washington 
       2010–2011: Mary Jane Irwin of the Pennsylvania State University 
       2011–2012: Judith S. Olson of the University of California, Irvine 
       2012–2013: Nancy Lynch of MIT 
       2013–2014: Katherine Yelick of LBNL 
       2014–2015: Susan Dumais of Microsoft Research 
       2015–2016: Jennifer Widom of Stanford University 
       2016–2017: Jennifer Rexford of Princeton University 
       2017–2018: Lydia Kavraki of Rice University 
       2018–2019: Andrea Goldsmith of Princeton University 
       2019–2020: Elisa Bertino of Purdue University 
       2020–2021: Sarit Kraus of Bar-Ilan University 
       2021–2022: Ayanna Howard of Ohio State University
       
      Cooperation 
      ACM's primary partner has been the IEEE Computer Society (IEEE-CS), which is the largest subgroup of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The IEEE focuses more on hardware and standardization issues than theoretical computer science, but there is considerable overlap with ACM's agenda. They have many joint activities including conferences, publications and awards. ACM and its SIGs co-sponsor about 20 conferences each year with IEEE-CS and other parts of IEEE. Eckert-Mauchly Award and Ken Kennedy Award, both major awards in computer science, are given jointly by ACM and the IEEE-CS. They occasionally cooperate on projects like developing computing curricula. 
      ACM has also jointly sponsored on events with other professional organizations like the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM).  
      Criticism 
      In December 2019, the ACM signed a letter to President Trump opposing open access. A petition against this was formed and collected over a thousand signatures. In reaction to this, ACM clarified its position. 
      The SoCG conference, while originally an ACM conference, parted ways with ACM in 2014 because of problems when organizing conferences abroad.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        ACM Classification Scheme 
        Franz Alt, former president 
        Edmund Berkeley, co–founder 
        Computer science 
        Computing 
        Bernard Galler, former president 
        Fellows of the ACM (by year) 
        Fellows of the ACM (category) 
        Grace Murray Hopper Award 
        Presidents of the Association for Computing Machinery 
        Timeline of computing hardware before 1950 
        Turing Award 
        List of academic databases and search engines
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ 
          "Indiana University Media Relations". indiana.edu. Retrieved October 10, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "ACM 501(c)3 Status as a group". irs.gov. Retrieved October 1, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Membership Benefits". www.acm.org. Retrieved May 9, 2019.  
        ^ 
          "Contact Information". www.acm.org.  
        ^ 
          "ACM History". www.acm.org. Retrieved February 6, 2018.  
        ^ Note: The school was then  known as the "University of Southwestern Louisiana (USL)". (Its name was later changed  to the "University of Louisiana at Lafayette".)  
        ^ 
          "Journals &amp; Magazines". acm.org.  
        ^ 
          Lowry, Paul Benjamin; Romans, Denton; Curtis, Aaron (2004). "Global Journal Prestige and Supporting Disciplines: A Scientometric Study of Information Systems Journals". Journal of the Association for Information Systems. 5 (2): 29–80. doi:10.17705/1jais.00045. SSRN&nbsp;666145.  
        ^ 
          Wakkary, R.; Stolterman, E. (2011). "WELCOME: Our first interactions". Interactions. 18: 5. doi:10.1145/1897239.1897240. S2CID&nbsp;6840587.  
        ^ 
          "Home page". sigcas.org. Association for Computing Machinery. Retrieved October 28, 2017.  
        ^ a b 
          "ACM Digital Library". acm.org.  
        ^ 
          "The University of Georgia Guide to Online Resources". Archived from the original on October 4, 2013. Retrieved July 12, 2015.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Author Rights". Acm.org.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Senior Members–An Overview". Acm.org. Archived from the original on January 18, 2012. Retrieved November 24, 2010.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Advanced Grades of Membership".  
        ^ 
          "List of ACM Fellows". Awards.acm.org. Retrieved February 10, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "List of ACM Distinguished Members". Awards.acm.org. Retrieved November 22, 2020.  
        ^ ACM Senior Members  
        ^ 
          "Homepage". ACM Distinguished Speakers. Association for Computing Machinery.  
        ^ 
          "The History of the Distinguished Speakers Program". ACM Distinguished Speakers. Association for Computing Machinery.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Speakers Committee". ACM Distinguished Speakers. Association for Computing Machinery.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Special Interest Groups". Archived from the original on July 27, 2010. Retrieved August 7, 2010.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Chapters". Retrieved August 7, 2010.  
        ^ 
          "Worldwide Professional Chapters". Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Retrieved December 27, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Chapters Listing by Geographic Region — Association for Computing Machinery". Campus.acm.org. Retrieved October 2, 2013.  
        ^  
          "ACM Special Interest Group on Logic and Computation". acm.org. Retrieved January 28, 2015.  
        ^ 
          "ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies (COMPASS)". Archived from the original on June 1, 2019. Retrieved June 1, 2019.  
        ^ 
          "Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM)". Cikmconference.org.  
        ^ 
          "Distributed Event-Based Systems". DEBS.org.  
        ^ 
          "GECCOs". Sigevo.org. ACM.  
        ^ 
          "Hypertext 2009". Ht2009.org.  
        ^ 
          "Joint Conference on Digital Library (JCDL)–Home". JCDL.  
        ^ 
          "Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, Largest Gathering of Women in Computing, Attracts Researchers, Industry". Retrieved June 27, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "ACM@UIUC". 2017. Archived from the original on June 16, 2018. Retrieved January 24, 2018.  
        ^ 
          "ACM's awards recognize excellence in computer science and information technology". awards.acm.org. Retrieved April 6, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "List of ACM Awards". awards.acm.org. Retrieved April 6, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Awards". Retrieved February 10, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Shun Receives ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award". School of Computer Science. Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved June 7, 2017.  
        ^ 
          Anon (2016). "ACM Inducts Fellows". Communications of the ACM. Association for Computing Machinery. 59 (2): 24. doi:10.1145/2856228.  
        ^ 
          "Special Interest Group (SIG) Awards". awards.acm.org. Retrieved April 6, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Past Presidents". acm.org. Retrieved October 12, 2014.  
        ^ 
          "Home". acm.org.  
        ^ 
          "About ACM Athena Lecturer Award". awards.acm.org. Retrieved April 6, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "ACM-W Athena Lecturers Award Winners". ACM. Retrieved December 1, 2013.  
        ^ 
          "Berkeley Lab's Yelick Named "Athena Lecturer" for Contributions to Parallel Programming Languages that Improve Programmer Productivity" (PDF) (Press release). ACM. March 21, 2013. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 3, 2013. Retrieved December 1, 2013.  
        ^ 
          "ACM / IEEE-CS Cooperation — Association for Computing Machinery". www.acm.org. Archived from the original on January 1, 2017. Retrieved February 22, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "ACM / IEEE-CS Jointly Sponsored Conferences —Association for Computing Machinery". www.acm.org. Archived from the original on January 1, 2017. Retrieved February 22, 2017.  
        ^ 
          "ACM / IEEE-CS Joint Awards — Association for Computing Machinery". www.acm.org. Archived from the original on April 6, 2016. Retrieved February 22, 2017.  
        ^ 
          Joint Task Force on Computing Curricula; Association for Computing Machinery (ACM); IEEE Computer Society (2013). Computer Science Curricula 2013: Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Degree Programs in Computer Science. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN&nbsp;9781450323093.  
        ^ 
          "SIAM: ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA17)". www.siam.org.  
        ^ 
          "Letter opposing lower embargoes" (PDF). December 18, 2019.  
        ^ 
          "Message from the ACM President Regarding Open Access". www.acm.org. Retrieved June 4, 2020.  
        ^ 
          "ACM Letter to OSTP". www.acm.org. Retrieved June 4, 2020.  
        ^ 
          "About ACM affiliation". computational-geometry.org. Retrieved June 4, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Erickson, Jeff (June 5, 2014). "A Brief History of SOCG and ACM". Making SOCG. Retrieved June 4, 2020.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Association for Computing Machinery.
         
       
       
      
       Official website  
       ACM portal for publications 
       ACM Digital Library 
       Association for Computing Machinery Records, 1947-2009, Charles Babbage Institute, University of Minnesota. 
       ACM Upsilon Phi Epsilon honor society Archived April 9, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Association for Computing Machinery
           
         
         
          Special Interest Groups
          
            
            
             SIGACCESS 
             SIGACT 
             SIGAda 
             SIGAI 
             SIGAPP 
             SIGARCH 
             SIGBED 
             SIGBio 
             SIGCAS 
             SIGCHI 
             SIGCOMM 
             SIGCSE 
             SIGDA 
             SIGDOC 
             SIGecom 
             SIGEVO 
             SIGGRAPH 
             SIGHPC 
             SIGIR 
             SIGITE 
             SIGKDD 
             SIGLOG 
             SIGMETRICS 
             SIGMICRO 
             SIGMIS 
             SIGMM 
             SIGMOBILE 
             SIGMOD 
             SIGOPS 
             SIGPLAN 
             SIGSAC 
             SIGSAM 
             SIGSIM 
             SIGSOFT 
             SIGSPATIAL 
             SIGUCCS 
             SIGWEB
             
           
         
         
          Awards
          
           
           
            
             
              ACM
              
                
                
                 Turing Award 
                 ACM Fellowship 
                 ACM-AAAI Allen Newell Award 
                 Athena Lecturer Award 
                 Eckert–Mauchly Award 
                 Eugene L. Lawler Award 
                 ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award 
                 Gordon Bell Prize 
                 Grace Murray Hopper Award 
                 Ken Kennedy Award 
                 Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award 
                 ACM Prize in Computing 
                 ACM Software System Award 
                 SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering
                 
               
             
             
              SIGs
              
                
                
                 CHI Academy 
                 Gödel Prize 
                 Knuth Prize 
                 Steven A. Coons Award
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Publications
          
            
            
             Journal of the ACM 
             Communications of the ACM 
             RISKS Digest 
             ACM Digital Library 
             ACM Computing Surveys 
             Computers in Entertainment 
             ACM Interactions 
             ACM Queue 
             ACM XRDS
             
           
         
         
          Conferences
          
            
            
             ACM-MM 
             ASPLOS 
             CHI 
             CIKM 
             DAC 
             DEBS 
             FAccT 
             FCRC 
             GECCO 
             GHC 
             HOPL 
             Hot Chips 
             Hypertext 
             SenSys 
             ISCA 
             ISMM 
             ISPD 
             ISSAC 
             JCDL 
             MobiCom 
             PLDI 
             PODC 
             PODS 
             POPL 
             PPoPP 
             SC 
             SIGCOMM 
             SIGCSE 
             SIGGRAPH 
             SoCG 
             SODA 
             SOSP 
             SPAA 
             SPLASH 
             STOC 
             TAPIA 
             UIST 
             VRIC
             
           
         
         
          Educational programs
          
            
            
             ACM-W 
             ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest 
             ACM Student Research Competition 
             Upsilon Pi Epsilon
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1 
               2
               
             VIAF 
              
               1 
               2
               
             WorldCat 
              
               2
              
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
              
               2 
               3
               
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Korea
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1 
               2
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Association_for_Computing_Machinery&amp;oldid=1069923678"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Association for Computing Machinery
       1947 establishments in the United States
       Computer science-related professional associations
       International learned societies
       Organizations established in 1947
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from July 2018
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from June 2012
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2019
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
       Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes from December 2021
       All Wikipedia neutral point of view disputes
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2021
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2020
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2014
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Piemontèis
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 4 February 2022, at 19:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
