
 
  
   
  Robert R. Korfhage - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Robert R. Korfhage 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American computer scientist
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Robert Roy Korfhage
          
        
        
         Born
         2 December 1930&nbsp;(1930-12-02)
          
           Fulton, Oswego County, New York
          
        
        
         Died
         20 November 1998&nbsp;(1998-11-21) (aged&nbsp;67)
        
        
         Citizenship
         United States
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         University of Michigan
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Information retrieval
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Institutions
         North Carolina State UniversityPurdue UniversitySouthern Methodist UniversityUniversity of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Bernard Galler
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Robert Roy Korfhage (December 2, 1930 – November 20, 1998) was an American computer scientist, famous for his contributions to information retrieval and several textbooks. 
      He was son of Dr. Roy Korfhage who was a chemist at Nestlé in Fulton, Oswego County, New York. Korfhage earned his bachelor's degree (1952) in engineering mathematics at University of Michigan, while working part-time at United Aircraft and Transport Corporation in East Hartford as programmer. At the same university, he earned a master's degree and Ph.D. (1962) in mathematics, his PhD dissertation being On Systems of Distinct Representatives for Several Collections of Sets advised by Bernard Galler (1962). 
      Korfhage taught mathematics at North Carolina State University (1962–64), Purdue University (1964–70), Southern Methodist University (1970–86) and the University of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences (1986–98). 
      Korfhage's research focused on graph theory and information retrieval. For instance, his Information Storage and Retrieval (1997) was winner of American Society for Information Science and Technology Best information science book award (1998). 
      In his later years, he worked on new ways of information visualization and also genetic algorithms to optimize text queries. 
      He died of cancer in Pittsburgh.  
      Books 
      
       1966: Logic and Algorithms, Wiley 
       1970: (with Harley Flanders) Calculus, Academic Press 
       1974: (with Harley Flanders and Justin Jesse Price) A Second Course in Calculus, Academic Press 
       1984: Discrete Computational Structures, Academic Press 
       1987: (with Norman E. Gibbs) Principles of Data Structures and Algorithms with Pascal, William C. Brown Publications 
       1997: Information Storage and Retrieval, Wiley.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ 40th year anniversary featuring a picture of Dr. Korfhage.  
         ^ Inside ASIS December 1998  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States 
             Netherlands
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          P&nbsp;≟&nbsp;NP&nbsp;
          This biographical article relating to a computer scientist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Robert_R._Korfhage&amp;oldid=1061379016"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       American computer scientists
       University of Michigan alumni
       Purdue University faculty
       Southern Methodist University faculty
       University of Pittsburgh faculty
       People from Fulton, Oswego County, New York
       1930 births
       1998 deaths
       Scientists from New York (state)
       Computer scientist stubs
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       All stub articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       تۆرکجه
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 December 2021, at 10:17&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
