
 
  
   
  The Web Conference - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   The Web Conference 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from International World Wide Web Conference)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
      
       
        
         The Web Conference
        
        
         
          
           Logo of the First International Conference on the World-Wide Web (1994)
          
        
        
         Abbreviation
         TheWebConf (formerly WWW)
        
        
         Discipline
         World Wide Web
        
        
         Publication details
        
        
         Publisher
         IW3C2
        
        
         History
         1994–present
        
        
         Frequency
         Annual
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Robert Cailliau, Founder of International World Wide Web Conference
        
       
       
      The Web Conference (formerly known as International World Wide Web Conference, abbreviated as WWW) is a yearly international academic conference on the topic of the future direction of the World Wide Web. The first conference of many was held and organized by Robert Cailliau in 1994 at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. The conference has been organized by the International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2), also founded by Robert Cailliau and colleague Joseph Hardin, every year since. The conference's location rotates among North America, Europe, and Asia and its events usually span a period of five days. The conference aims to provide a forum in which "key influencers, decision makers, technologists, businesses and standards bodies" can both present their ongoing work, research, and opinions as well as receive feedback from some of the most knowledgeable people in the field. 
      The conference series is aimed at providing a global forum for discussion and debate in regard to the standardization of its associated technologies and the impact of said technologies on society and culture. Developers, researchers, internet users as well as commercial ventures and organizations come together at the conference to discuss the latest advancements of the Web and its evolving uses and trends, such as the development and popularization of the eTV and eBusiness. The conferences usually include a variety of events, such as tutorials and workshops, as well as the main conference and special dedications of space in memory of the history of the Web and specific notable events. The conferences are organized by the IW3C2 in collaboration with the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), Local Organizing Committees, and Technical Program Committees.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Content 
        3 List of conference editions 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Robert Cailliau, a founder of the World Wide Web himself, lobbied inside CERN and at conferences like the Hypertext conference 1991 in San Antonio, Texas, and 1993 in Seattle, Washington. As he came back from the conference 1993 he announced a new conference called World Wide Web Conference 1 and was actually 23 hours faster than the NCSA announced Mosaic and the Web. After founding the IW3C2 with Joseph Hardin from the NCSA they decided the next Conferences in Geneva.  
      Content 
      Though the way in which its content is organized varies from year to year, the World-Wide Web Conference nevertheless has continued to be the "premiere venue for researchers, academics, businesses, and standard bodies to come together and discuss  latest updates and the state and evolutionary path of the Web". People from all across the world come together in the spirit of such a tradition, submitting their own cutting-edge, exciting new research to be peer reviewed by some of the World Wide Web community's most knowledgeable members. 
      At its most recent conference, WWW's largest program, peer reviewed research paper presentations, fell into one of eleven categories:  
      
       Behavioral analysis and personalization 
       Content analysis 
       Crowd phenomena 
       Internet economics and monetization 
       Security, privacy, trust and abuse 
       Semantic web 
       Social networks and graph analysis 
       Software infrastructure, performance, scalability, and availability 
       User interfaces, human factors, and smart devices 
       Web mining 
       Web search systems and applications
       
      Those papers accepted will not only be presented at the conference itself, but appear in the online conference proceedings published by the ACM Digital Library as well as the conference's website. Furthermore, many of these papers continue to be submitted to other peer-reviewed journals consequent to the conclusion of the conference. 
      In addition to presenting breakthrough research on the Web and its associated technologies, the Conference acts as a stage for developers to demonstrate and receive feedback on their ongoing work in a dedicated session. The Demo Track allows researchers and practitioners to demonstrate new systems in a dedicated session. The Developer Track is a track dedicated solely to web development, a stage upon which web developers can present "new trends and interesting ideas  code and APIs of emerging applications, platforms, and standards." 
      Though peer-reviewed research paper presentations, demo, and developer tracks are a large portion of the conference's program, it is not merely a launch pad for individuals who have completed cutting-edge research in the field. Students studying the Web and its associated technologies can submit unfinished work for review. Beginner as well as senior PhD students are encouraged to present their ideas to the PhD Symposium for review. This is a unique opportunity to receive feedback on their work from experienced researchers as well as other senior PhD students working in related research areas. All applications and submissions are looked over by the Symposium Program Committee. This committee includes other experienced researches. These people are able to help the applicants and guide them in their work. Researchers and practitioners are also encouraged to submit their new and innovative work-in-progress. Providing them with a unique opportunity to gain feedback from their peers in an informal setting, the Poster Track provides its presenters invaluable feedback from knowledgeable sources as well as other conference attendees with an opportunity to learn about novel ongoing research projects whose results already appear promising, despite their incompletion. 
      Lastly, the Conference allows for a series of co-located workshops to its attendees dedicated to emergent Web topics. These workshops work to not only create an open dialogue amongst all researchers and practitioners of Web technologies but also a potential means of collaboration in present and future endeavors.  
      List of conference editions 
      Past and future conferences include:  
       
       
         
         Year  
         Conference  
         City  
         Country 
         
         
         2022  
         WWW2022  
         Online (due to COVID-19 pandemic; was scheduled for Lyon)  
         &nbsp;France 
         
         
         2021  
         WWW2021  
         Online (due to COVID-19 pandemic; was scheduled for Ljubljana)  
         &nbsp;Slovenia 
         
         
         2020  
         WWW2020  
         Online (due to COVID-19 pandemic; was scheduled for Taipei)  
         &nbsp;Taiwan 
         
         
         2019  
         WWW2019  
         San Francisco  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         2018  
         WWW2018  
         Lyon  
         &nbsp;France 
         
         
         2017  
         WWW2017  
         Perth  
         &nbsp;Australia 
         
         
         2016  
         WWW2016  
         Montreal  
         &nbsp;Canada 
         
         
         2015  
         WWW2015  
         Florence  
         &nbsp;Italy 
         
         
         2014  
         WWW2014  
         Seoul  
         &nbsp;South Korea 
         
         
         2013  
         WWW2013  
         Rio  
         &nbsp;Brazil 
         
         
         2012  
         WWW2012  
         Lyon  
         &nbsp;France 
         
         
         2011  
         WWW2011  
         Hyderabad  
         &nbsp;India 
         
         
         2010  
         WWW2010  
         Raleigh, North Carolina  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         2009  
         WWW2009  
         Madrid  
         &nbsp;Spain 
         
         
         2008  
         WWW2008  
         Beijing  
         &nbsp;China 
         
         
         2007  
         WWW2007  
         Banff  
         &nbsp;Canada  
         
         
         2006  
         WWW2006  
         Edinburgh  
         &nbsp;United Kingdom  
         
         
         2005  
         WWW2005  
         Chiba  
         &nbsp;Japan 
         
         
         2004  
         WWW2004  
         New York  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         2003  
         WWW2003  
         Budapest  
         &nbsp;Hungary 
         
         
         2002  
         WWW2002  
         Honolulu, Hawaii  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         2001  
         WWW10  
         Hong Kong  
         &nbsp;China 
         
         
         2000  
         WWW9  
         Amsterdam  
         &nbsp;Netherlands 
         
         
         1999  
         WWW8  
         Toronto  
         &nbsp;Canada 
         
         
         1998  
         WWW7  
         Brisbane  
         &nbsp;Australia 
         
         
         1997  
         WWW6  
         Santa Clara  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         1996  
         WWW5  
         Paris  
         &nbsp;France 
         
         
         1995 (December)  
         WWW4  
         Boston  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         1995 (April)  
         WWW3  
         Darmstadt  
         &nbsp;Germany 
         
         
         1994 (October)  
         Mosaic and the Web (later WWW2)  
         Chicago  
         &nbsp;United States 
         
         
         1994 (May)  
         WWW1  
         Geneva  
         &nbsp;&nbsp;Switzerland 
        
       
       
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to The Web Conference.
         
       
       
      
       ACM KDD 
       ACM SIGIR 
       ACM CIKM 
       WSDM 
       IEEE ICDM 
       SDM 
       ICML 
       NIPS
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "Past and Future Conferences".  
         ^ 
           Business/Technology Editors. "Ninth International World Wide Web Conference Opens Today: Latest Developments in Trend-Setting Technologies Revealed". Business Wire. Retrieved 19 March 2014. }: |last= has generic name (help)  
         ^ 
           Business &amp; Hi-Tech Editors. "Web Inventor Tim Berners-Lee to Keynote; Premier International World Wide Web Conference". Business Wire. 
            ProQuest&nbsp;446691129. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help); |last= has generic name (help)  
         ^ 
           "International World Wide Web Conference, 28th March - 1st April 2011, Hyderabad, India". Www2011india.com. Retrieved 19 September 2011.  
         ^ a b c 
           Petrie, Charles; Cailliau, Robert (November 1997). "Interview Robert Cailliau on the WWW Proposal: "How It Really Happened."". Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Retrieved 18 August 2010.  
         ^ a b 
           "Call for Research Papers" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Call for Papers- Demo Track" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "The 23rd International World Wide Web Conference: Call for PhD Symposium" (PDF).  
         ^ a b 
           "Call for Workshop" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Past and Future Conferences". IW3C2. Retrieved 26 November 2012.  
         ^ International World Wide Web Conferences Committee.  
         ^ 25th World Wide Web Conference - Home.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       List of Past and Future WWW Conferences on IW3C2 site
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Web_Conference&amp;oldid=1066605664"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Web-related conferences
       Computer science conferences
       Computer networking conferences
       Information systems conferences
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: generic name
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Use dmy dates from January 2015
       Commons category link from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Azərbaycanca
       Français
       Русский
       Türkçe
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 19 January 2022, at 05:38&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
