
 
  
   
  Gerard Salton Award - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Gerard Salton Award 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Gerard Salton Award"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (June 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The Gerard Salton Award is presented by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR) every three years to an individual who has made "significant, sustained and continuing contributions to research in information retrieval". SIGIR also co-sponsors (with SIGWEB) the Vannevar Bush Award, for the best paper at the Joint Conference on Digital Libraries.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Chronological honorees and lectures 
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Chronological honorees and lectures 
      Source: SIGIR  
      
       1983 - Gerard Salton, Cornell University&nbsp;: "About the future of automatic information retrieval." 
       1988 - Karen Spärck Jones, University of Cambridge&nbsp;: "A look back and a look forward." 
       1991 - Cyril Cleverdon, Cranfield Institute of Technology&nbsp;: "The significance of the Cranfield tests on index languages." 
       1994 - William S. Cooper, University of California, Berkeley&nbsp;: "The formalism of probability theory in IR: a foundation or an encumbrance?" 
       1997 - Tefko Saracevic&nbsp;, Rutgers University&nbsp;: "Users lost (summary): reflections on the past, future, and limits of information science." 
       2000 - Stephen E. Robertson, City University London&nbsp;: "On theoretical argument in information retrieval."For ... "Thirty years of significant, sustained and continuing contributions to research in information retrieval. Of special importance are the theoretical and empirical contributions to the development, refinement, and evaluation of probabilistic models of information retrieval." 
       2003 - W. Bruce Croft, University of Massachusetts Amherst&nbsp;: "Information retrieval and computer science: an evolving relationship."For ... "More than twenty years of significant, sustained and continuing contributions to research in information retrieval. His contributions to the theoretical development and practical use of Bayesian inference networks and language modelling for retrieval, and to their evaluation through extensive experiment and application, are particularly important. The Center for Intelligent Information Retrieval which he founded illustrates the strong synergies between fundamental research and its application to a wide range of practical information management problems." 
       2006 - C. J. van Rijsbergen, University of Glasgow&nbsp;: "Quantum haystacks." 
       2009 - Susan Dumais, Microsoft Research&nbsp;: "An Interdisciplinary Perspective on Information Retrieval." 
       2012 - Norbert Fuhr, University of Duisburg-Essen: "Information Retrieval as Engineering Science." 
       2015 - Nicholas J. Belkin, Rutgers University&nbsp;: “People, Interacting with Information” 
       2018 - Kalervo Järvelin&nbsp;, University of Tampere&nbsp;: “Information Interaction in Context”
       
      See also 
      
       Information Retrieval Awards 
       List of computer science awards
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Gerard Salton Awards". Retrieved 2020-12-02.  
         ^ 
           "Vannevar Bush Best Paper Awards". Retrieved 2020-12-02.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       ACM SIGIR homepage 
       ACM SIGIR awards
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gerard_Salton_Award&amp;oldid=992655229"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Association for Computing Machinery
       Computer science awards
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from June 2020
       All articles needing additional references
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 December 2020, at 12:14&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
