
 
  
   
  Knowledge organization - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Knowledge organization 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Field of study related to Library and Information Science
       
      
      
       For the journal, see Knowledge Organization (journal).
       
      
      
       See also: Knowledge organization (management)
       
      
      
       
        
         Information science
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
           
           
            Access 
            Architecture 
            Behavior 
            Management 
            Retrieval 
            Seeking 
            Society 
            Knowledge organization 
            Ontology 
            Philosophy 
            Science and technology studies 
            Taxonomy
            
           
        
        
          Related fields and sub-fields
        
        
          
           
           
            Bibliometrics 
            Categorization 
            Censorship 
            Classification 
            Computer data storage 
            Cultural studies 
            Data modeling 
            Informatics 
            Information technology 
            Intellectual freedom 
            Intellectual property 
            Library and information science 
            Memory 
            Preservation 
            Privacy 
            Quantum information science
            
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Knowledge organization"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (October 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Knowledge organization (KO), organization of knowledge, organization of information, or information organization is an intellectual discipline concerned with activities such as document description, indexing, and classification that serve to provide systems of representation and order for knowledge and information objects. According to The Organization of Information by Joudrey and Taylor, information organization: 
      
       examines the activities carried out and tools used by people who work in places that accumulate information resources (e.g., books, maps, documents, datasets, images) for the use of humankind, both immediately and for posterity. It discusses the processes that are in place to make resources findable, whether someone is searching for a single known item or is browsing through hundreds of resources just hoping to discover something useful. Information organization supports a myriad of information-seeking scenarios.
       
      Issues related to knowledge sharing can be said to have been an important part of knowledge management for a long time. Knowledge sharing has received a lot of attention in research and business practice both within and outside organizations and its different levels. 
      Sharing knowledge is not only about giving it to others, but it also includes searching, locating, and absorbing knowledge. Unawareness of the employees’ works and duties tend to provoke the repetition of mistakes, the waste of resources, and duplicating the same projects. It is important to motivate co-workers to share their knowledge. This concept is called knowledge enabling. It leads to trust among the individuals from an association and encourages a more open and proactive relationship that grants the trade of information easily.  
      Knowledge sharing is part of the three-phase knowledge management process which is a continuous process model. The three parts are knowledge creation, knowledge implementation, and knowledge sharing. The process is continuous, which is why the parts cannot be fully separated. Knowledge creation is the consequence of individuals’ minds, interactions, and activities. Developing new ideas and arrangements allude to the process of knowledge creation. Using the knowledge which is present at the company in the most effective manner stands for the implementation of knowledge. Knowledge sharing, the most essential part of the process for our topic, takes place when two or more people benefit by learning from each other.  
      Traditional human-based approaches performed by librarians, archivists, and subject specialists are increasingly challenged by computational (big data) algorithmic techniques. KO as a field of study is concerned with the nature and quality of such knowledge-organizing processes (KOP) (such as taxonomy and ontology) as well as the resulting knowledge organizing systems (KOS). 
      Divergent historical and theoretical approaches towards organizing knowledge are based on different views of knowledge, cognition, language, and social organization. This richness lends itself to many complementary ways to consider knowledge organization. The academic International Society for Knowledge Organization (ISKO) engages with these issues via the research journal Knowledge Organization.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Theoretical approaches 
          
          1.1 Traditional approaches 
          1.2 Facet analytic approaches 
          1.3 The information retrieval tradition (IR) 
          1.4 User-oriented and cognitive views 
          1.5 Bibliometric approaches 
          1.6 The domain analytic approach 
          1.7 Other approaches 
           
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Theoretical approaches 
      Traditional approaches 
      Among the major figures in the history of KO are Melvil Dewey (1851–1931) and Henry Bliss (1870–1955). 
      Dewey's goal was an efficient way to manage library collections; not an optimal system to support users of libraries. His system was meant to be used in many libraries as a standardized way to manage collections. The first version of this system was created in 1876. 
      An important characteristic in Henry Bliss' (and many contemporary thinkers of KO) was that the sciences tend to reflect the order of Nature and that library classification should reflect the order of knowledge as uncovered by science: 
      Natural order → Scientific classification → Library classification (KO) 
       The implication is that librarians, in order to classify books, should know about scientific developments. This should also be reflected in their education: 
       
      
       Again from the standpoint of the higher education of librarians, the teaching of systems of classification&nbsp;... would be perhaps better conducted by including courses in the systematic encyclopedia and methodology of all the sciences, that is to say, outlines which try to summarize the most recent results in the relation to one another in which they are now studied together.&nbsp;... (Ernest Cushing Richardson, quoted from Bliss, 1935, p.&nbsp;2)
       
      Among the other principles, which may be attributed to the traditional approach to KO are:  
      
       Principle of controlled vocabulary 
       Cutter's rule about specificity 
       Hulme's principle of literary warrant (1911) 
       Principle of organizing from the general to the specific
       
      Today, after more than 100 years of research and development in LIS, the "traditional" approach still has a strong position in KO and in many ways its principles still dominate.  
      Facet analytic approaches 
      The date of the foundation of this approach may be chosen as the publication of S. R. Ranganathan's colon classification in 1933. The approach has been further developed by, in particular, the British Classification Research Group. In many ways this approach has dominated what might be termed "modern classification theory". 
      The best way to explain this approach is probably to explain its analytico-synthetic methodology. The meaning of the term "analysis" is: breaking down each subject into its basic concepts. The meaning of the term synthesis is: combining the relevant units and concepts to describe the subject matter of the information package in hand. 
      Given subjects (as they appear in, for example, book titles) are first analyzed into a few common categories, which are termed "facets". Ranganathan proposed his PMEST formula: Personality, Matter, Energy, Space and Time:  
      
       Personality is the distinguishing characteristic of a subject. 
       Matter is the physical material of which a subject may be composed. 
       Energy is any action that occurs with respect to the subject. 
       Space is the geographic component of the location of a subject. 
       Time is the period associated with a subject.
       
      The information retrieval tradition (IR) 
      Important in the IR-tradition have been, among others, the Cranfield experiments, which were founded in the 1950s, and the TREC experiments (Text Retrieval Conferences) starting in 1992. It was the Cranfield experiments, which introduced the measures "recall" and "precision" as evaluation criteria for systems efficiency. The Cranfield experiments found that classification systems like UDC and facet-analytic systems were less efficient compared to free-text searches or low level indexing systems ("UNITERM"). The Cranfield I test found, according to Ellis (1996, 3–6) the following results:  
       
       
         
         system  
         recall 
         
         
         UNITERM  
         82,0% 
         
         
         Alphabetical subject headings  
         81,5% 
         
         
         UDC  
         75,6% 
         
         
         Facet classification scheme  
         73,8% 
        
       
       
      Although these results have been criticized and questioned, the IR-tradition became much more influential while library classification research lost influence. The dominant trend has been to regard only statistical averages. What has largely been neglected is to ask: Are there certain kinds of questions in relation to which other kinds of representation, for example, controlled vocabularies, may improve recall and precision?  
      User-oriented and cognitive views 
      The best way to define this approach is probably by method: Systems based upon user-oriented approaches must specify how the design of a system is made on the basis of empirical studies of users. 
      User studies demonstrated very early that users prefer verbal search systems as opposed to systems based on classification notations. This is one example of a principle derived from empirical studies of users. Adherents of classification notations may, of course, still have an argument: That notations are well-defined and that users may miss important information by not considering them. 
      Folksonomies is a recent kind of KO based on users' rather than on librarians' or subject specialists' indexing.  
      Bibliometric approaches 
      These approaches are primarily based on using bibliographical references to organize networks of papers, mainly by bibliographic coupling (introduced by Kessler 1963) or co-citation analysis ( independently suggested by Marshakova 1973 and Small 1973). In recent years it has become a popular activity to construe bibliometric maps as structures of research fields. 
      Two considerations are important in considering bibliometric approaches to KO:  
      
       The level of indexing depth is partly determined by the number of terms assigned to each document. In citation indexing this corresponds to the number of references in a given paper. On the average, scientific papers contain 10–15 references, which provide quite a high level of depth. 
       The references, which function as access points, are provided by the highest subject-expertise: The experts writing in the leading journals. This expertise is much higher than that which library catalogs or bibliographical databases typically are able to draw on.
       
      The domain analytic approach 
      Domain analysis is a sociological-epistemological standpoint that advocates that the indexing of a given document should reflect the needs of a given group of users or a given ideal purpose. In other words, any description or representation of a given document is more or less suited to the fulfillment of certain tasks. A description is never objective or neutral, and the goal is not to standardize descriptions or make one description once and for all for different target groups. Hjørland (2017) outlined the following methodology for domain analysis:  
      
       Go to a given domain, 
       Look at how it is classified according to contemporary knowledge (including different views) 
       Discuss the basis, the epistemological assumptions and which interests are served by proposed classifications 
       Suggest a motivated classification
       
       The development of the Danish library "KVINFO" may serve as an example that explains the domain-analytic point of view. 
      KVINFO was founded by the librarian and writer Nynne Koch and its history goes back to 1965. Nynne Koch was employed at the Royal Library in Copenhagen in a position without influence on book selection. She was interested in women's studies and began personally to collect printed catalog cards of books in the Royal Library, which were considered relevant for women's studies. She developed a classification system for this subject. Later she became the head of KVINFO and got a budget for buying books and journals, and still later, KVINFO became an independent library. The important theoretical point of view is that the Royal Library had an official systematic catalog of a high standard. Normally it is assumed that such a catalog is able to identify relevant books for users whatever their theoretical orientation. This example demonstrates, however, that for a specific user group (feminist scholars), an alternative way of organizing catalog cards was important. In other words: Different points of view need different systems of organization. 
      Domain analysis has examined epistemological issues in the field, i.e. comparing the assumptions made in different approaches to KO and examining the questions regarding subjectivity and objectivity in KO. Subjectivity is not just about individual differences. Such differences are of minor interest because they cannot be used as guidelines for KO. What seems important are collective views shared by many users. A kind of subjectivity about many users is related to philosophical positions. In any field of knowledge different views are always at play. In arts, for example, different views of art are always present. Such views determine views on art works, writing on art works, how art works are organized in exhibitions and how writings on art are organized in libraries. In general it can be stated that different philosophical positions on any issue have implications for relevance criteria, information needs and for criteria of organizing knowledge.  
      Other approaches 
      One widely used analysis of information-organizational principles, attributed to Richard Saul Wurman, summarizes them as Location, Alphabet, Time, Category, Hierarchy (LATCH).  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Automatic document classification 
        Body of knowledge 
        Classification (general theory) 
        Dewey decimal classification 
        Discipline (academia) 
        Document classification 
        Growth of knowledge 
        Information ecology 
        Knowledge organization systems 
        Library and information science 
        Library classification 
        List of academic fields 
        Outline of academic disciplines 
        Personal information management
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Joudrey, Daniel N., and Arlene G. Taylor. The Organization of Information, 4th ed. Santa Barbara, CA: Libraries Unlimited, 2018, p.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;9781598848595 
           OCLC&nbsp;1005741949  
         ^ Rese, A., Kopplin, C. S. &amp; Nielebock, C.(2020). Factors influencing members’ knowledge sharing and creative performance in coworking spaces. Journal of knowledge management. Ahead-of-print (ahead-of-print)  
         ^ 11Yasir, M. &amp; Majid, A. (2017). Impact of knowledge management enablers on knowledge sharing. World Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and Sustainable Development. 13(1), p. 16–33.  
         ^ Intezari, A., Taskin, N., &amp; Pauleen, D. J. (2017). Looking beyond knowledge sharing: an integra-tive approach to knowledge management culture. Journal of Knowledge Management. 21(2), p. 492–515.  
         ^ Miksa, Francis. 1998. The DDC, the Universe of Knowledge, and the Post-Modern Library. Albany, NY: Forest Press.  
         ^ HULME, E.W. Principles of book classification. Library Association Record, n.13–4, 1911–1912.  
         ^ Barité, Mario. 2018. "Literary warrant". Knowledge Organization 45, no. 6: 517–536. Also available in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, ed. Birger Hjørland, coed. Claudio Gnoli. http://www.isko.org/cyclo/literary_warrant  
         ^  Hjørland, Birger. 2013. "Facet analysis: the logical approach to knowledge organization". Information Processing and Management 49, no. 2: 545–57. doi:10.1016/j.ipm.2012.10.001  
         ^ 
           "System of Document Connections Based on References" (PDF). Nauchn-Techn.Inform. 1973.  
         ^ Hjørland, Birger. 2017. "Domain Analysis". Knowledge Organization 44, no. 6: 436-464. Also available online in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization: https://www.isko.org/cyclo/domain_analysis#7  
         ^ 
           Wurman, Richard Saul (1989). Information Anxiety. New York: Doubleday. ISBN&nbsp;0385243944. OCLC&nbsp;18442022.  
         ^ 
           Greene, David (October 1998). "LATCH: a syllabus design for EFL instruction in CALL". Computer Assisted Language Learning. 11 (4): 381–396. doi:10.1076/call.11.4.381.5668.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Library classification systems
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Bliss (BC) 
             Brian Deer 
             Chinese Library (CLC/CCL) 
             Colon (CC) 
             Cutter Expansive 
             Dewey Decimal (DDC) 
             Harvard–Yenching 
             Korean decimal (KDC) 
             Library of Congress (LCC) 
             New Classification Scheme for Chinese Libraries 
             Nippon Decimal (NDC) 
             Russian Library-Bibliographical Classification (BBK) 
             Swedish library system (SAB) 
             Universal Decimal (UDC)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
              
              
               See also: Knowledge organization
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Knowledge_organization&amp;oldid=1066648660"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Epistemology
       Information science
       Information science by discipline
       Knowledge
       Library cataloging and classification
       Library science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from October 2015
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       日本語
       Polski
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 19 January 2022, at 11:37&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
