
 
  
   
  Information extraction - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information extraction 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Automatically extracting structured information from un- or semi-structured machine-readable documents, such as human language texts
       
      Information extraction (IE) is the task of automatically extracting structured information from unstructured and/or semi-structured machine-readable documents and other electronically represented sources. In most of the cases this activity concerns processing human language texts by means of natural language processing (NLP). Recent activities in multimedia document processing like automatic annotation and content extraction out of images/audio/video/documents could be seen as information extraction 
      Due to the difficulty of the problem, current approaches to IE focus on narrowly restricted domains. An example is the extraction from newswire reports of corporate mergers, such as denoted by the formal relation:  
      
       
        
            
             
              
               
               
                M
                
               
                e
                
               
                r
                
               
                g
                
               
                e
                
               
                r
                
               
                B
                
               
                e
                
               
                t
                
               
                w
                
               
                e
                
               
                e
                
               
                n
                
               
              
               (
               
              
               c
               
              
               o
               
              
               m
               
              
               p
               
              
               a
               
              
               n
               
               
               
                y
                
                
                
                 1
                 
                
               
              
               ,
               
              
               c
               
              
               o
               
              
               m
               
              
               p
               
              
               a
               
              
               n
               
               
               
                y
                
                
                
                 2
                 
                
               
              
               ,
               
              
               d
               
              
               a
               
              
               t
               
              
               e
               
              
               )
               
              
             
            
              (company_,company_,date)}
             
            
          ,
       
       
      from an online news sentence such as:  
      
       
        "Yesterday, New York based Foo Inc. announced their acquisition of Bar Corp."
       
       
      A broad goal of IE is to allow computation to be done on the previously unstructured data. A more specific goal is to allow logical reasoning to draw inferences based on the logical content of the input data. Structured data is semantically well-defined data from a chosen target domain, interpreted with respect to category and context. 
      Information extraction is the part of a greater puzzle which deals with the problem of devising automatic methods for text management, beyond its transmission, storage and display. The discipline of information retrieval (IR) has developed automatic methods, typically of a statistical flavor, for indexing large document collections and classifying documents. Another complementary approach is that of natural language processing (NLP) which has solved the problem of modelling human language processing with considerable success when taking into account the magnitude of the task. In terms of both difficulty and emphasis, IE deals with tasks in between both IR and NLP. In terms of input, IE assumes the existence of a set of documents in which each document follows a template, i.e. describes one or more entities or events in a manner that is similar to those in other documents but differing in the details. An example, consider a group of newswire articles on Latin American terrorism with each article presumed to be based upon one or more terroristic acts. We also define for any given IE task a template, which is a(or a set of) case frame(s) to hold the information contained in a single document. For the terrorism example, a template would have slots corresponding to the perpetrator, victim, and weapon of the terroristic act, and the date on which the event happened. An IE system for this problem is required to “understand” an attack article only enough to find data corresponding to the slots in this template.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Present significance 
        3 Tasks and subtasks 
        4 World Wide Web applications 
        5 Approaches 
        6 Free or open source software and services 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Information extraction dates back to the late 1970s in the early days of NLP. An early commercial system from the mid-1980s was JASPER built for Reuters by the Carnegie Group Inc with the aim of providing real-time financial news to financial traders. 
      Beginning in 1987, IE was spurred by a series of Message Understanding Conferences. MUC is a competition-based conference that focused on the following domains:  
      
       MUC-1 (1987), MUC-2 (1989): Naval operations messages. 
       MUC-3 (1991), MUC-4 (1992): Terrorism in Latin American countries. 
       MUC-5 (1993): Joint ventures and microelectronics domain. 
       MUC-6 (1995): News articles on management changes. 
       MUC-7 (1998): Satellite launch reports.
       
      Considerable support came from the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), who wished to automate mundane tasks performed by government analysts, such as scanning newspapers for possible links to terrorism.  
      Present significance 
      The present significance of IE pertains to the growing amount of information available in unstructured form. Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the world wide web, refers to the existing Internet as the web of documents  and advocates that more of the content be made available as a web of data. Until this transpires, the web largely consists of unstructured documents lacking semantic metadata. Knowledge contained within these documents can be made more accessible for machine processing by means of transformation into relational form, or by marking-up with XML tags. An intelligent agent monitoring a news data feed requires IE to transform unstructured data into something that can be reasoned with. A typical application of IE is to scan a set of documents written in a natural language and populate a database with the information extracted.  
      Tasks and subtasks 
      Applying information extraction to text is linked to the problem of text simplification in order to create a structured view of the information present in free text. The overall goal being to create a more easily machine-readable text to process the sentences. Typical IE tasks and subtasks include:  
      
       Template filling: Extracting a fixed set of fields from a document, e.g. extract perpetrators, victims, time, etc. from a newspaper article about a terrorist attack. 
        
         Event extraction: Given an input document, output zero or more event templates. For instance, a newspaper article might describe multiple terrorist attacks.
         
       Knowledge Base Population: Fill a database of facts given a set of documents. Typically the database is in the form of triplets, (entity 1, relation, entity 2), e.g. (Barack Obama, Spouse, Michelle Obama) 
        
         Named entity recognition: recognition of known entity names (for people and organizations), place names, temporal expressions, and certain types of numerical expressions, by employing existing knowledge of the domain or information extracted from other sentences. Typically the recognition task involves assigning a unique identifier to the extracted entity. A simpler task is named entity detection, which aims at detecting entities without having any existing knowledge about the entity instances. For example, in processing the sentence "M. Smith likes fishing", named entity detection would denote detecting that the phrase "M. Smith" does refer to a person, but without necessarily having (or using) any knowledge about a certain M. Smith who is (or, "might be") the specific person whom that sentence is talking about. 
         Coreference resolution: detection of coreference and anaphoric links between text entities. In IE tasks, this is typically restricted to finding links between previously-extracted named entities. For example, "International Business Machines" and "IBM" refer to the same real-world entity. If we take the two sentences "M. Smith likes fishing. But he doesn't like biking", it would be beneficial to detect that "he" is referring to the previously detected person "M. Smith". 
         Relationship extraction: identification of relations between entities, such as: 
          
           PERSON works for ORGANIZATION (extracted from the sentence "Bill works for IBM.") 
           PERSON located in LOCATION (extracted from the sentence "Bill is in France.")
          
         
       Semi-structured information extraction which may refer to any IE that tries to restore some kind of information structure that has been lost through publication, such as: 
        
         Table extraction: finding and extracting tables from documents. 
         Table information extraction&nbsp;: extracting information in structured manner from the tables. This is more complex task than table extraction, as table extraction is only the first step, while understanding the roles of the cells, rows, columns, linking the information inside the table and understanding the information presented in the table are additional tasks necessary for table information extraction.  
         Comments extraction&nbsp;: extracting comments from actual content of article in order to restore the link between author of each sentence
         
       Language and vocabulary analysis 
        
         Terminology extraction: finding the relevant terms for a given corpus
         
       Audio extraction 
        
         Template-based music extraction: finding relevant characteristic in an audio signal taken from a given repertoire; for instance  time indexes of occurrences of percussive sounds can be extracted in order to represent the essential rhythmic component of a music piece.
        
       
      Note that this list is not exhaustive and that the exact meaning of IE activities is not commonly accepted and that many approaches combine multiple sub-tasks of IE in order to achieve a wider goal. Machine learning, statistical analysis and/or natural language processing are often used in IE. 
      IE on non-text documents is becoming an increasingly interesting topic in research, and information extracted from multimedia documents can now be expressed in a high level structure as it is done on text. This naturally leads to the fusion of extracted information from multiple kinds of documents and sources.  
      World Wide Web applications 
      IE has been the focus of the MUC conferences. The proliferation of the Web, however, intensified the need for developing IE systems that help people to cope with the enormous amount of data that is available online. Systems that perform IE from online text should meet the requirements of low cost, flexibility in development and easy adaptation to new domains. MUC systems fail to meet those criteria. Moreover, linguistic analysis performed for unstructured text does not exploit the HTML/XML tags and the layout formats that are available in online texts. As a result, less linguistically intensive approaches have been developed for IE on the Web using wrappers, which are sets of highly accurate rules that extract a particular page's content. Manually developing wrappers has proved to be a time-consuming task, requiring a high level of expertise. Machine learning techniques, either supervised or unsupervised, have been used to induce such rules automatically. 
      Wrappers typically handle highly structured collections of web pages, such as product catalogs and telephone directories. They fail, however, when the text type is less structured, which is also common on the Web. Recent effort on adaptive information extraction motivates the development of IE systems that can handle different types of text, from well-structured to almost free text -where common wrappers fail- including mixed types. Such systems can exploit shallow natural language knowledge and thus can be also applied to less structured texts. 
      A recent development is Visual Information Extraction, that relies on rendering a webpage in a browser and creating rules based on the proximity of regions in the rendered web page. This helps in extracting entities from complex web pages that may exhibit a visual pattern, but lack a discernible pattern in the HTML source code.  
      Approaches 
      The following standard approaches are now widely accepted:  
      
       Hand-written regular expressions (or nested group of regular expressions) 
       Using classifiers 
        
         Generative: naïve Bayes classifier 
         Discriminative: maximum entropy models such as Multinomial logistic regression
         
       Sequence models 
        
         Recurrent neural network 
         Hidden Markov model 
         Conditional Markov model (CMM) / Maximum-entropy Markov model (MEMM) 
         Conditional random fields (CRF) are commonly used in conjunction with IE for tasks as varied as extracting information from research papers to extracting navigation instructions.
        
       
      Numerous other approaches exist for IE including hybrid approaches that combine some of the standard approaches previously listed.  
      Free or open source software and services 
      
       General Architecture for Text Engineering (GATE) is bundled with a free Information Extraction system 
       Apache OpenNLP is a Java machine learning toolkit for natural language processing 
       OpenCalais is an automated information extraction web service from Thomson Reuters (Free limited version) 
       Machine Learning for Language Toolkit (Mallet) is a Java-based package for a variety of natural language processing tasks, including information extraction. 
       DBpedia Spotlight is an open source tool in Java/Scala (and free web service) that can be used for named entity recognition and name resolution. 
       Natural Language Toolkit is a suite of libraries and programs for symbolic and statistical natural language processing (NLP) for the Python programming language 
       See also CRF implementations
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        
         Extraction
        
        
       
        Data extraction 
        Keyword extraction 
        Knowledge extraction 
        Ontology extraction 
        Open information extraction 
        Table extraction 
        Terminology extraction
        
       
        
         Mining, crawling, scraping, and recognition
        
        
       
        Apache Nutch, web crawler 
        Concept mining 
        Named entity recognition 
        Textmining 
        Web scraping
        
       
        
         Search and translation
        
        
       
        Enterprise search 
        Faceted search 
        Semantic translation
        
       
        
         General
        
        
       
        Applications of artificial intelligence 
        DARPA TIPSTER Program
        
       
        
         Lists
        
        
       
        List of emerging technologies 
        Outline of artificial intelligence
        
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ FREITAG, DAYNE. "Machine Learning for Information Extraction in Informal Domains" (PDF). 2000 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.  
        ^ 
          Andersen, Peggy M.; Hayes, Philip J.; Huettner, Alison K.; Schmandt, Linda M.; Nirenburg, Irene B.; Weinstein, Steven P. (1992). "Automatic Extraction of Facts from Press Releases to Generate News Stories". Proceedings of the third conference on Applied natural language processing -. pp.&nbsp;170–177. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.14.7943. doi:10.3115/974499.974531. S2CID&nbsp;14746386.  
        ^ 
          Cowie, Jim; Wilks, Yorick (1996). Information Extraction (PDF). p.&nbsp;3. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.61.6480. S2CID&nbsp;10237124. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2019-02-20.  
        ^ Marco Costantino, Paolo Coletti, Information Extraction in Finance, Wit Press, 2008. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84564-146-7  
        ^ 
          "Linked Data - The Story So Far" (PDF).  
        ^ 
          "Tim Berners-Lee on the next Web".  
        ^ R. K. Srihari, W. Li, C. Niu and T. Cornell,"InfoXtract: A Customizable Intermediate Level Information Extraction Engine",Journal of Natural Language Engineering, Cambridge U. Press, 14(1), 2008, pp.33-69.  
        ^ a b 
          Dat Quoc Nguyen and Karin Verspoor (2019). "End-to-end neural relation extraction using deep biaffine attention". Proceedings of the 41st European Conference on Information Retrieval (ECIR). arXiv:1812.11275. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-15712-8_47.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic N, Gregson C, Hernandez R, Nenadic G (February 2019). "A framework for information extraction from tables in biomedical literature". International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition (IJDAR). 22 (1): 55–78. arXiv:1902.10031. Bibcode:2019arXiv190210031M. doi:10.1007/s10032-019-00317-0. S2CID&nbsp;62880746.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic, Nikola (2018). A multi-layered approach to information extraction from tables in biomedical documents (PDF) (PhD). University of Manchester.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic N, Gregson C, Hernandez R, Nenadic G (February 2019). "A framework for information extraction from tables in biomedical literature". International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition (IJDAR). 22 (1): 55–78. arXiv:1902.10031. Bibcode:2019arXiv190210031M. doi:10.1007/s10032-019-00317-0. S2CID&nbsp;62880746.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic N, Gregson C, Hernandez R, Nenadic G (June 2016). "Disentangling the structure of tables in scientific literature". 21st International Conference on Applications of Natural Language to Information Systems. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 21: 162–174. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-41754-7_14. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-41753-0.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic, Nikola (2018). A multi-layered approach to information extraction from tables in biomedical documents (PDF) (PhD). University of Manchester.  
        ^ A.Zils, F.Pachet, O.Delerue and F. Gouyon, Automatic Extraction of Drum Tracks from Polyphonic Music Signals, Proceedings of WedelMusic, Darmstadt, Germany, 2002.  
        ^ 
          Chenthamarakshan, Vijil; Desphande, Prasad M; Krishnapuram, Raghu; Varadarajan, Ramakrishnan; Stolze, Knut (2015). "WYSIWYE: An Algebra for Expressing Spatial and Textual Rules for Information Extraction". arXiv:1506.08454 .  
        ^ 
          Baumgartner, Robert; Flesca, Sergio; Gottlob, Georg (2001). "Visual Web Information Extraction with Lixto": 119–128. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.21.8236. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          Peng, F.; McCallum, A. (2006). "Information extraction from research papers using conditional random fields☆". Information Processing &amp; Management. 42 (4): 963. doi:10.1016/j.ipm.2005.09.002.  
        ^ 
          Shimizu, Nobuyuki; Hass, Andrew (2006). "Extracting Frame-based Knowledge Representation from Route Instructions" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-09-01. Retrieved 2010-03-27.  
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Information extraction"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (March 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Alias-I "competition" page A listing of academic toolkits and industrial toolkits for natural language information extraction. 
       Gabor Melli's page on IE Detailed description of the information extraction task.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_extraction&amp;oldid=1059690482"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Natural language processing
       Artificial intelligence
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from September 2020
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Articles with long short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2017
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from March 2017
       Articles needing additional references from March 2017
       All articles needing additional references
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       日本語
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Svenska
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 11 December 2021, at 00:01&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
