
 
  
   
  Computer memory - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Computer memory 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Device used on a computer for storing data
       
      
      
       
        
         Computer memory and data storage types
        
        
          
          
           
            General
           
            
            
             Memory cell 
             Memory coherence 
             Cache coherence 
             Memory hierarchy 
             Memory access pattern 
             Memory map 
             Secondary storage 
             MOS memory 
              
               floating-gate
               
             Continuous availability 
             Areal density (computer storage) 
             Block (data storage) 
             Object storage 
             Direct-attached storage 
             Network-attached storage 
              
               Storage area network 
               Block-level storage
               
             Single-instance storage 
             Data 
             Structured data 
             Unstructured data 
             Big data 
             Metadata 
             Data compression 
             Data corruption 
             Data cleansing 
             Data degradation 
             Data integrity 
             Data security 
             Data validation 
             Data validation and reconciliation 
             Data recovery 
             Storage 
             Data cluster 
             Directory 
             Shared resource 
             File sharing 
             File system 
             Clustered file system 
             Distributed file system 
             Distributed file system for cloud 
             Distributed data store 
             Distributed database 
             Database 
             Data bank 
             Data storage 
             Data store 
             Data deduplication 
             Data structure 
             Data redundancy 
             Replication (computing) 
             Memory refresh 
             Storage record 
             Information repository 
             Knowledge base 
             Computer file 
             Object file 
             File deletion 
             File copying 
             Backup 
             Core dump 
             Hex dump 
             Data communication 
             Information transfer 
             Temporary file 
             Copy protection 
             Digital rights management 
             Volume (computing) 
             Boot sector 
             Master boot record 
             Volume boot record 
             Disk array 
             Disk image 
             Disk mirroring 
             Disk aggregation 
             Disk partitioning 
             Memory segmentation 
             Locality of reference 
             Logical disk 
             Storage virtualization 
             Virtual memory 
             Memory-mapped file 
             Software entropy 
             Software rot 
             In-memory database 
             In-memory processing 
             Persistence (computer science) 
             Persistent data structure 
             RAID 
             Non-RAID drive architectures 
             Memory paging 
             Bank switching 
             Grid computing 
             Cloud computing 
             Cloud storage 
             Fog computing 
             Edge computing 
             Dew computing 
             Amdahl's law 
             Moore's law 
             Kryder's law
            
           
           
        
        
          Volatile
        
        
          
          
           
            RAM
           
            
            
             Hardware cache 
              
               CPU cache 
               Scratchpad memory
               
             DRAM 
              
               eDRAM 
               SDRAM 
               SGRAM 
               LPDDR 
               QDRSRAM 
               EDO DRAM 
               XDR DRAM 
               RDRAM 
               SDRAM 
               DDR 
               GDDR 
               HBM
               
             SRAM 
              
               1T-SRAM
               
             ReRAM 
             QRAM 
             Content-addressable memory (CAM) 
             VRAM 
             Dual-ported RAM 
              
               Video RAM (dual-ported DRAM)
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Historical
           
            
            
             Williams–Kilburn tube (1946–1947) 
             Delay-line memory (1947) 
             Mellon optical memory (1951) 
             Selectron tube (1952) 
             Dekatron 
             T-RAM (2009) 
             Z-RAM (2002–2010)
            
           
           
        
        
          Non-volatile
        
        
          
          
           
            ROM
           
            
            
             MROM 
             PROM 
              
               EPROM 
               EEPROM
               
             ROM cartridge 
             Solid-state storage (SSS) 
              
               Flash memory is used in: 
               Solid-state drive (SSD) 
               Solid-state hybrid drive (SSHD) 
               USB flash drive 
               IBM FlashSystem 
               Flash Core Module
               
             Memory card 
              
               Memory Stick 
               CompactFlash 
               PC Card 
               MultiMediaCard 
               SD card 
               SIM card 
               SmartMedia 
               Universal Flash Storage 
               SxS 
               MicroP2 
               XQD card
               
             Programmable metallization cell
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            NVRAM
           
            
            
             Memistor 
             Memristor 
             PCM (3D XPoint) 
             MRAM 
             Electrochemical RAM (ECRAM) 
             Nano-RAM 
             CBRAM
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Early stage NVRAM
           
            
            
             FeRAM 
             ReRAM 
             FeFET memory
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Analog recording
           
            
            
             Phonograph cylinder 
             Phonograph record 
             Quadruplex videotape 
             Vision Electronic Recording Apparatus 
             Magnetic recording 
              
               Magnetic storage 
               Magnetic tape 
               Magnetic tape data storage 
               Tape drive 
               Tape library 
               Digital Data Storage (DDS) 
               Videotape 
               Videocassette 
               Cassette tape 
               Linear Tape-Open 
               Betamax 
               8 mm video format 
               DV 
               MiniDV 
               MicroMV 
               U-matic 
               VHS 
               S-VHS 
               VHS-C 
               D-VHS
               
             Hard disk drive
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Optical
           
            
            
             3D optical data storage 
              
               Optical disc 
               LaserDisc 
               Compact Disc Digital Audio (CDDA) 
               CD 
               CD Video 
               CD-R 
               CD-RW 
               Video CD 
               Super Video CD 
               Mini CD 
               Nintendo optical discs 
               CD-ROM 
               Hyper CD-ROM 
               DVD 
               DVD+R 
               DVD-Video 
               DVD card 
               DVD-RAM 
               MiniDVD 
               HD DVD 
               Blu-ray 
               Ultra HD Blu-ray 
               Holographic Versatile Disc
               
             WORM
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            In development
           
            
            
             CBRAM 
             Racetrack memory 
             NRAM 
             Millipede memory 
             ECRAM 
             Patterned media 
             Holographic data storage 
              
               Electronic quantum holography
               
             5D optical data storage 
             DNA digital data storage 
             Universal memory 
             Time crystal 
             Quantum memory
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Historical
           
            
            
             Paper data storage (1725) 
             Punched card (1725) 
             Punched tape (1725) 
             Plugboard 
             Delay-line memory 
             Drum memory (1932) 
             Magnetic-core memory (1949) 
             Plated wire memory (1957) 
             Core rope memory (1960s) 
             Thin-film memory (1962) 
             Disk pack (1962) 
             Twistor memory (~1968) 
             Bubble memory (~1970) 
             Floppy disk (1971)
            
           
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Modern DDR4 SDRAM module, usually found in desktop computers.
        
       
       
      In computing, memory is a device or system that is used to store information for immediate use in a computer or related computer hardware and digital electronic devices. The term memory is often synonymous with the term primary storage or main memory. An archaic synonym for memory is store. 
      Computer memory operates at a high speed compared to storage that is slower but less expensive and higher in capacity. Besides storing opened programs, computer memory serves as disk cache and write buffer to improve both reading and writing performance. Operating systems borrow RAM capacity for caching so long as not needed by running software. If needed, contents of the computer memory can be transferred to storage; a common way of doing this is through a memory management technique called virtual memory. 
      Modern memory is implemented as semiconductor memory, where data is stored within memory cells built from MOS transistors and other components on an integrated circuit. There are two main kinds of semiconductor memory, volatile and non-volatile. Examples of non-volatile memory are flash memory and ROM, PROM, EPROM and EEPROM memory. Examples of volatile memory are dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) used for primary storage, and static random-access memory (SRAM) used for CPU cache. 
      Most semiconductor memory is organized into memory cells each storing one bit (0 or 1). Flash memory organization includes both one bit per memory cell and multi-level cell capable of storing multiple bits per cell. The memory cells are grouped into words of fixed word length, for example, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 or 128 bits. Each word can be accessed by a binary address of N bits, making it possible to store 2N words in the memory.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 MOS memory 
           
        2 Volatile memory 
        3 Non-volatile memory 
        4 Semi-volatile memory 
        5 Management 
          
          5.1 Bugs 
          5.2 Early computer systems 
          5.3 Virtual memory 
          5.4 Protected memory 
           
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        
       
      History 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Detail of the back of a section of ENIAC, showing vacuum tubes.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         8&nbsp;GB microSDHC card on top of 8&nbsp;bytes of magnetic-core memory (1&nbsp;core is 1&nbsp;bit).
        
       
       
      In the early 1940s, memory technology often permitted a capacity of a few bytes. The first electronic programmable digital computer, the ENIAC, using thousands of vacuum tubes, could perform simple calculations involving 20 numbers of ten decimal digits stored in the vacuum tubes. 
      The next significant advance in computer memory came with acoustic delay-line memory, developed by J. Presper Eckert in the early 1940s. Through the construction of a glass tube filled with mercury and plugged at each end with a quartz crystal, delay lines could store bits of information in the form of sound waves propagating through the mercury, with the quartz crystals acting as transducers to read and write bits. Delay-line memory was limited to a capacity of up to a few thousand bits. 
      Two alternatives to the delay line, the Williams tube and Selectron tube, originated in 1946, both using electron beams in glass tubes as means of storage. Using cathode ray tubes, Fred Williams invented the Williams tube, which was the first random-access computer memory. The Williams tube was able to store more information than the Selectron tube (the Selectron was limited to 256 bits, while the Williams tube could store thousands) and less expensive. The Williams tube was nevertheless frustratingly sensitive to environmental disturbances. 
      Efforts began in the late 1940s to find non-volatile memory. Magnetic-core memory allowed for recall of memory after power loss. It was developed by Frederick W. Viehe and An Wang in the late 1940s, and improved by Jay Forrester and Jan A. Rajchman in the early 1950s, before being commercialised with the Whirlwind computer in 1953. Magnetic-core memory was the dominant form of memory until the development of MOS semiconductor memory in the 1960s. 
      The first semiconductor memory was implemented as a flip-flop circuit in the early 1960s using bipolar transistors. Semiconductor memory made from discrete devices was first shipped by Texas Instruments to the United States Air Force in 1961. The same year, the concept of solid-state memory on an integrated circuit (IC) chip was proposed by applications engineer Bob Norman at Fairchild Semiconductor. The first bipolar semiconductor memory IC chip was the SP95 introduced by IBM in 1965. While semiconductor memory offered improved performance over magnetic-core memory, it remain larger and more expensive and did not displace magnetic-core memory until the late 1960s.  
      MOS memory 
      
      
       Main article: MOS memory
       
      The invention of the metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) enabled the practical use of metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) transistors as memory cell storage elements. MOS memory was developed by John Schmidt at Fairchild Semiconductor in 1964. In addition to higher performance, MOS semiconductor memory was cheaper and consumed less power than magnetic core memory. In 1965, J. Wood and R. Ball of the Royal Radar Establishment proposed digital storage systems that use CMOS (complementary MOS) memory cells, in addition to MOSFET power devices for the power supply, switched cross-coupling, switches and delay-line storage. The development of silicon-gate MOS integrated circuit (MOS IC) technology by Federico Faggin at Fairchild in 1968 enabled the production of MOS memory chips. NMOS memory was commercialized by IBM in the early 1970s. MOS memory overtook magnetic core memory as the dominant memory technology in the early 1970s. 
      The two main types of volatile random-access memory (RAM) are static random-access memory (SRAM) and dynamic random-access memory (DRAM). Bipolar SRAM was invented by Robert Norman at Fairchild Semiconductor in 1963, followed by the development of MOS SRAM by John Schmidt at Fairchild in 1964. SRAM became an alternative to magnetic-core memory, but requires six transistors for each bit of data. Commercial use of SRAM began in 1965, when IBM introduced their SP95 SRAM chip for the System/360 Model 95. 
      Toshiba introduced bipolar DRAM memory cells for its Toscal BC-1411 electronic calculator in 1965. While it offered improved performance, bipolar DRAM could not compete with the lower price of the then dominant magnetic-core memory. MOS technology is the basis for modern DRAM. In 1966, Robert H. Dennard at the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center was working on MOS memory. While examining the characteristics of MOS technology, he found it was possible to build capacitors, and that storing a charge or no charge on the MOS capacitor could represent the 1 and 0 of a bit, while the MOS transistor could control writing the charge to the capacitor. This led to his development of a single-transistor DRAM memory cell. In 1967, Dennard filed a patent for a single-transistor DRAM memory cell based on MOS technology. This led to the first commercial DRAM IC chip, the Intel 1103 in October 1970. Synchronous dynamic random-access memory (SDRAM) later debuted with the Samsung KM48SL2000 chip in 1992. 
      The term memory is also often used to refer to non-volatile memory including read-only memory (ROM) through modern flash memory. Programmable read-only memory (PROM) was invented by Wen Tsing Chow in 1956, while working for the Arma Division of the American Bosch Arma Corporation. In 1967, Dawon Kahng and Simon Sze of Bell Labs proposed that the floating gate of a MOS semiconductor device could be used for the cell of a reprogrammable ROM, which led to Dov Frohman of Intel inventing EPROM (erasable PROM) in 1971. EEPROM (electrically erasable PROM) was developed by Yasuo Tarui, Yutaka Hayashi and Kiyoko Naga at the Electrotechnical Laboratory in 1972. Flash memory was invented by Fujio Masuoka at Toshiba in the early 1980s. Masuoka and colleagues presented the invention of NOR flash in 1984, and then NAND flash in 1987. Toshiba commercialized NAND flash memory in 1987. 
      Developments in technology and economies of scale have made possible so-called Very Large Memory (VLM) computers.  
      Volatile memory 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Various memory modules containing different types of DRAM (from top to bottom): DDR SDRAM, SDRAM, EDO DRAM, and FPM DRAM
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Volatile memory
       
      Volatile memory is computer memory that requires power to maintain the stored information. Most modern semiconductor volatile memory is either static RAM (SRAM) or dynamic RAM (DRAM). SRAM retains its contents as long as the power is connected and is simpler for interfacing, but uses six transistors per bit. Dynamic RAM is more complicated for interfacing and control, needing regular refresh cycles to prevent losing its contents, but uses only one transistor and one capacitor per bit, allowing it to reach much higher densities and much cheaper per-bit costs. 
      SRAM is not worthwhile for desktop system memory, where DRAM dominates, but is used for their cache memories. SRAM is commonplace in small embedded systems, which might only need tens of kilobytes or less. Volatile memory technologies that have attempted to compete or replace SRAM and DRAM include Z-RAM and A-RAM.  
      Non-volatile memory 
      
      
       Main article: Non-volatile memory
       
      Non-volatile memory is computer memory that can retain the stored information even when not powered. Examples of non-volatile memory include read-only memory (see ROM), flash memory, most types of magnetic computer storage devices (e.g. hard disk drives, floppy disks and magnetic tape), optical discs, and early computer storage methods such as paper tape and punched cards. 
      Forthcoming non-volatile memory technologies include FERAM, CBRAM, PRAM, STT-RAM, SONOS, RRAM, racetrack memory, NRAM, 3D XPoint, and millipede memory.  
      Semi-volatile memory 
      A third category of memory is "semi-volatile". The term is used to describe a memory which has some limited non-volatile duration after power is removed, but then data is ultimately lost. A typical goal when using a semi-volatile memory is to provide high performance/durability/etc. associated with volatile memories, while providing some benefits of a true non-volatile memory. 
      For example, some non-volatile memory types can wear out, where a "worn" cell has increased volatility but otherwise continues to work. Data locations which are written frequently can thus be directed to use worn circuits. As long as the location is updated within some known retention time, the data stays valid. If the retention time "expires" without an update, then the value is copied to a less-worn circuit with longer retention. Writing first to the worn area allows a high write rate while avoiding wear on the not-worn circuits. 
      As a second example, an STT-RAM can be made non-volatile by building large cells, but the cost per bit and write power go up, while the write speed goes down. Using small cells improves cost, power, and speed, but leads to semi-volatile behavior. In some applications the increased volatility can be managed to provide many benefits of a non-volatile memory, for example by removing power but forcing a wake-up before data is lost; or by caching read-only data and discarding the cached data if the power-off time exceeds the non-volatile threshold. 
      The term semi-volatile is also used to describe semi-volatile behavior constructed from other memory types. For example, a volatile and a non-volatile memory may be combined, where an external signal copies data from the volatile memory to the non-volatile memory, but if power is removed without copying, the data is lost. Or, a battery-backed volatile memory, and if external power is lost there is some known period where the battery can continue to power the volatile memory, but if power is off for an extended time, the battery runs down and data is lost.  
      Management 
      
      
       Main article: Memory management
       
      Proper management of memory is vital for a computer system to operate properly. Modern operating systems have complex systems to properly manage memory. Failure to do so can lead to bugs, slow performance, and at worst case, takeover by viruses and malicious software.  
      Bugs 
      Improper management of memory is a common cause of bugs, including the following types:  
      
       In an arithmetic overflow, a calculation results in a number larger than the allocated memory permits. For example, a signed 8-bit integer allows the numbers −128 to +127. If its value is 127 and it is instructed to add one, the computer can not store the number 128 in that space. Such a case will result in an undesired operation, such as changing the number's value to −128 instead of +128. 
       A memory leak occurs when a program requests memory from the operating system and never returns the memory when it's done with it. A program with this bug will gradually require more and more memory until the program fails as it runs out. 
       A segmentation fault results when a program tries to access memory that it does not have permission to access. Generally, a program doing so will be terminated by the operating system. 
       A buffer overflow means that a program writes data to the end of its allocated space and then continues to write data to memory that has been allocated for other purposes. This may result in erratic program behavior, including memory access errors, incorrect results, a crash, or a breach of system security. They are thus the basis of many software vulnerabilities and can be maliciously exploited.
       
      Early computer systems 
      In early computer systems, programs typically specified the location to write memory and what data to put there. This location was a physical location on the actual memory hardware. The slow processing of such computers did not allow for the complex memory management systems used today. Also, as most such systems were single-task, sophisticated systems were not required as much. 
      This approach has its pitfalls. If the location specified is incorrect, this will cause the computer to write the data to some other part of the program. The results of an error like this are unpredictable. In some cases, the incorrect data might overwrite memory used by the operating system. Computer crackers can take advantage of this to create viruses and malware.  
      Virtual memory 
      
      
       Main article: Virtual memory
       
      Virtual memory is a system where all physical memory is controlled by the operating system. When a program needs memory, it requests it from the operating system. The operating system then decides in what physical location to place the program's code and data. 
      This offers several advantages. Computer programmers no longer need to worry about where their data is physically stored or whether the user's computer will have enough memory. It also allows multiple types of memory to be used. For example, some data can be stored in physical RAM chips while other data is stored on a hard drive (e.g. in a swapfile), functioning as an extension of the cache hierarchy. This drastically increases the amount of memory available to programs. The operating system will place actively used data in physical RAM, which is much faster than hard disks. When the amount of RAM is not sufficient to run all the current programs, it can result in a situation where the computer spends more time moving data from RAM to disk and back than it does accomplishing tasks; this is known as thrashing.  
      Protected memory 
      
      
       Main article: Memory protection
       
      Protected memory is a system where each program is given an area of memory to use and is not permitted to go outside that range. Use of protected memory greatly enhances both the reliability and security of a computer system. 
      Without protected memory, it is possible that a bug in one program will alter the memory used by another program. This will cause that other program to run off of corrupted memory with unpredictable results. If the operating system's memory is corrupted, the entire computer system may crash and need to be rebooted. At times programs intentionally alter the memory used by other programs. This is done by viruses and malware to take over computers. It may also be used benignly by desirable programs which are intended to modify other programs; in the modern age, this is generally considered bad programming practice for application programs, but it may be used by system development tools such as debuggers, for example to insert breakpoints or hooks. 
      Protected memory assigns programs their own areas of memory. If the operating system detects that a program has tried to alter memory that does not belong to it, the program is terminated (or otherwise restricted or redirected). This way, only the offending program crashes, and other programs are not affected by the misbehavior (whether accidental or intentional). 
      Protected memory systems almost always include virtual memory as well.  
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Computer memory.
         
       
       
      
       Memory geometry 
       Memory hierarchy 
       Memory organization 
       Processor registers store data but normally are not considered as memory, since they only store one word and do not include an addressing mechanism. 
       Semiconductor memory 
       Units of information
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Hemmendinger, David (February 15, 2016). "Computer memory". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 16 October 2019.  
         ^ A.M. Turing and R.A. Brooker (1952). Programmer's Handbook for Manchester Electronic Computer Mark II Archived 2014-01-02 at the Wayback Machine. University of Manchester.  
         ^ 
           "Documentation for /proc/sys/vm/".  
         ^ 
           "The MOS Memory Market" (PDF). Integrated Circuit Engineering Corporation. Smithsonian Institution. 1997. Retrieved 16 October 2019.  
         ^ 
           "MOS Memory Market Trends" (PDF). Integrated Circuit Engineering Corporation. Smithsonian Institution. 1998. Retrieved 16 October 2019.  
         ^ 
           "1960 - Metal Oxide Semiconductor (MOS) Transistor Demonstrated". The Silicon Engine. Computer History Museum.  
         ^ 
           "1953: Whirlwind computer debuts core memory". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 2 August 2019.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           "1966: Semiconductor RAMs Serve High-speed Storage Needs". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 19 June 2019.  
         ^ 
           "1953: Transistors make fast memories | The Storage Engine | Computer History Museum". www.computerhistory.org. Retrieved 2019-11-14.  
         ^ 
           Orton, John W. (2009). Semiconductors and the Information Revolution: Magic Crystals that made IT Happen. Academic Press. p.&nbsp;104. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-08-096390-7.  
         ^ 
           Solid State Design - Vol. 6. Horizon House. 1965.  
         ^ a b c 
           "1970: MOS Dynamic RAM Competes with Magnetic Core Memory on Price". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 29 July 2019.  
         ^ 
           Wood, J.; Ball, R. (February 1965). The use of insulated-gate field-effect transistors in digital storage systems. 1965 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference. Digest of Technical Papers. Vol.&nbsp;VIII. pp.&nbsp;82–83. doi:10.1109/ISSCC.1965.1157606.  
         ^ 
           "1968: Silicon Gate Technology Developed for ICs". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 10 August 2019.  
         ^ 
           Critchlow, D. L. (2007). "Recollections on MOSFET Scaling". IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Newsletter. 12 (1): 19–22. doi:10.1109/N-SSC.2007.4785536.  
         ^ a b 
           "DRAM". IBM100. IBM. 9 August 2017. Retrieved 20 September 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Spec Sheet for Toshiba "TOSCAL" BC-1411". Old Calculator Web Museum. Archived from the original on 3 July 2017. Retrieved 8 May 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Toshiba "Toscal" BC-1411 Desktop Calculator". Archived from the original on 2007-05-20.  
         ^ 
           "1966: Semiconductor RAMs Serve High-speed Storage Needs". Computer History Museum.  
         ^ 
           "Robert Dennard". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 8 July 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Intel: 35 Years of Innovation (1968–2003)" (PDF). Intel. 2003. Retrieved 26 June 2019.  
         ^ a b The DRAM memory of Robert Dennard history-computer.com  
         ^ 
           Lojek, Bo (2007). History of Semiconductor Engineering. Springer Science &amp; Business Media. pp.&nbsp;362–363. ISBN&nbsp;9783540342588. The i1103 was manufactured on a 6-mask silicon-gate P-MOS process with 8 μm minimum features. The resulting product had a 2,400 µm, 2 memory cell size, a die size just under 10 mm², and sold for around $21.  
         ^ 
           "KM48SL2000-7 Datasheet". Samsung. August 1992. Retrieved 19 June 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Electronic Design". Electronic Design. Hayden Publishing Company. 41 (15–21). 1993. The first commercial synchronous DRAM, the Samsung 16-Mbit KM48SL2000, employs a single-bank architecture that lets system designers easily transition from asynchronous to synchronous systems.  
         ^ 
           Han-Way Huang (5 December 2008). Embedded System Design with C805. Cengage Learning. p.&nbsp;22. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-111-81079-5. Archived from the original on 27 April 2018.  
         ^ 
           Marie-Aude Aufaure; Esteban Zimányi (17 January 2013). Business Intelligence: Second European Summer School, eBISS 2012, Brussels, Belgium, July 15-21, 2012, Tutorial Lectures. Springer. p.&nbsp;136. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-642-36318-4. Archived from the original on 27 April 2018.  
         ^ 
           "1971: Reusable semiconductor ROM introduced". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 19 June 2019.  
         ^ 
           Tarui, Y.; Hayashi, Y.; Nagai, K. (1972). "Electrically reprogrammable nonvolatile semiconductor memory". IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits. 7 (5): 369–375. Bibcode:1972IJSSC...7..369T. doi:10.1109/JSSC.1972.1052895. ISSN&nbsp;0018-9200.  
         ^ 
           Fulford, Benjamin (24 June 2002). "Unsung hero". Forbes. Archived from the original on 3 March 2008. Retrieved 18 March 2008.  
         ^ US 4531203&nbsp; Fujio Masuoka  
         ^ 
           "Toshiba: Inventor of Flash Memory". Toshiba. Retrieved 20 June 2019.  
         ^ 
           Masuoka, F.; Momodomi, M.; Iwata, Y.; Shirota, R. (1987). "New ultra high density EPROM and flash EEPROM with NAND structure cell". Electron Devices Meeting, 1987 International. IEDM 1987. IEEE. doi:10.1109/IEDM.1987.191485.  
         ^ 
           "1987: Toshiba Launches NAND Flash". eWeek. April 11, 2012. Retrieved 20 June 2019.  
         ^ 
           "1971: Reusable semiconductor ROM introduced". Computer History Museum. Retrieved 19 June 2019.  
         ^ a b c d e 
           Stanek, William R. (2009). Windows Server 2008 Inside Out. O'Reilly Media, Inc. p.&nbsp;1520. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7356-3806-8. Archived from the original on 2013-01-27. Retrieved 2012-08-20.  Windows Server Enterprise supports clustering with up to eight-node clusters and very large memory (VLM) configurations of up to 32&nbsp;GB on 32-bit systems and 2&nbsp;TB on 64-bit systems.  
         ^ 
           Montierth, Briggs, Keithley. "Semi-volatile NAND flash memory". Retrieved 20 May 2018.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Keppel, Naeimi, Nasrullah. "Method and apparatus for managing a spin-transfer torque memory". Google Patents. Retrieved 20 May 2018.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Miller, Stephen W. (1977), Memory and Storage Technology, Montvale.: AFIPS Press
       
      
       
        Memory and Storage Technology, Alexandria, Virginia.: Time Life Books, 1988
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Basic computer components
           
         
         
          Input devices
          
           
           
            
             
              Pointing devices
              
                
                
                 Graphics tablet 
                 Game controller 
                 Light pen 
                 Mouse 
                  
                   Optical
                   
                 Optical trackpad 
                 Pointing stick 
                 Touchpad 
                 Touchscreen 
                 Trackball
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 Keyboard 
                 Image scanner 
                 Graphics card 
                  
                   GPU
                   
                 Microphone 
                 Refreshable braille display 
                 Sound card 
                  
                   Sound chip
                   
                 Webcam 
                  
                   Softcam
                  
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Output devices
          
            
            
             Monitor 
              
               Screen
               
             Refreshable braille display 
             Printer 
              
               Plotter
               
             Speakers 
             Sound card 
             Graphics card
             
           
         
         
          Removable  data storage
          
            
            
             Disk pack 
             Floppy disk 
             Optical disc 
              
               CD 
               DVD 
               Blu-ray
               
             Flash memory 
              
               Memory card 
               USB flash drive
              
             
           
         
         
          Computer case
          
            
            
             Central processing unit 
              
               Microprocessor
               
             Motherboard 
             Memory 
              
               RAM 
               BIOS
               
             Data storage 
              
               HDD 
               SSD (SATA / NVMe) 
               SSHD
               
             Power supply 
              
               SMPS
               
             MOSFET 
              
               Power MOSFET 
               VRM
               
             Network interface controller 
             Fax modem 
             Expansion card
             
           
         
         
          Ports
          
           
           
            
             
              Current
              
                
                
                 Ethernet 
                 USB 
                 Thunderbolt 
                 Analog audio jack 
                 DisplayPort 
                 HDMI
                 
               
             
             
              Obsolete
              
                
                
                 FireWire (IEEE 1394) 
                 Parallel port 
                 Serial port 
                 PS/2 port 
                 eSATA 
                 DVI 
                 VGA
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Processing benchmarks
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Free software 
             Proprietary software 
             Performance per watt 
             Data center infrastructure efficiency 
             Giga-updates per second (memory) 
             CPU power dissipation
             
           
         
         
          Organizations
          
            
            
             BAPCo consortium 
             EEMBC 
             Futuremark 
             Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation (SPEC) 
             Transaction Processing Performance Council (TPC)
             
           
         
         
          Processor
          
           
           
            
             
              Floating-point unit (FLOPS)
              
                
                
                 SPECfp 
                 LINPACK 
                 LAPACK 
                 Prime95 
                 Super PI 
                 SuperPrime 
                 Whetstone 
                 IBM iSeries benchmarks (Computational Intensive Workload)
                 
               
             
             
              Integer (ALU)
              
                
                
                 Dhrystone 
                 Fhourstones 
                 SPECint 
                 CoreMark
                 
               
             
             
              Digital signal processor (DSP)
              
                
                
                 BTDi
                 
               
             
             
              Graphics processing unit (GPU)
              
                
                
                 BRL-CAD
                 
               
             
             
              Parallel computing
              
                
                
                 DEISA Benchmark Suite 
                 Livermore loops 
                 NAS Parallel Benchmarks 
                 HPC Challenge Benchmark 
                 Princeton Application Repository for Shared-Memory Computers (PARSEC)
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Peripherals
          
           
           
            
             
              Network
              
                
                
                 BreakingPoint Systems 
                 SUPS
                 
               
             
             
              Filesystems and storage
              
                
                
                 Bonnie++ 
                 HD Tach 
                 IOzone 
                 Diskspd
                 
               
             
             
              Computer memory
              
                
                
                 BSS Random Access benchmark 
                 HPC Challenge Random Memory Access
                 
               
             
             
              I/O subsystem
              
                
                
                 Iometer 
                 Ioblazer 
                 IBM iSeries benchmarks (Commercial Processing Workload)
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Computer system (entire)
          
            
            
             Hierarchical INTegration (HINT) 
             NBench (CPU, memory)
             
           
         
         
          Energy consumption
          
            
            
             Average CPU power (x86) 
             EEMBC (embedded systems) 
             Data center infrastructure efficiency 
             SPECpower (Java software) 
             Server Efficiency Rating Tool (SERT)
             
           
         
         
          Software
          
           
           
            
             
              JavaScript engine
              
                
                
                 Browser speed test
                 
               
             
             
              Cryptography
              
                
                
                 Cycles per byte
                 
               
             
             
              Multiuser system
              
                
                
                 SDET 
                 AIM Multiuser Benchmark
                 
               
             
             
              Virtual machine
              
                
                
                 VMmark 
                 SPECvirt
                 
               
             
             
              Physics engine
              
                
                
                 Physics Abstraction Layer API Bench
                 
               
             
             
              Recursion performance
              
                
                
                 Tak (function)
                 
               
             
             
              Database transactions
              
                
                
                 rPerf (IBM) 
                 TATP Benchmark 
                 Transaction Processing over XML (TPoX) 
                 YCSB (NoSQL)
                 
               
             
             
              Web server benchmarking
              
                
                
                 Apache JMeter 
                 Curl-loader 
                 httperf 
                 OpenSTA 
                 TPC-W 
                 Tsung
                 
               
             
             
              X Window System
              
                
                
                 Xmark93
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Platform specific
          
            
            
             Adjusted Peak Performance (Nuclear weapon simulation) 
             AnTuTu (ARM) 
             BogoMips (Linux) 
             Coremark (embedded systems) 
             iCOMP (index) (Intel) 
             Novabench (Windows and macOS) 
             Phoronix Test Suite (Linux) 
             Performance Rating (AMD) 
             Sysinfo &amp; SysSpeed (Motorola 68k) 
             WorldBench (Windows)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_memory&amp;oldid=1070331711"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Computer memory
       MOSFETs
       Digital electronics
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       Jawa
       Kiswahili
       Lietuvių
       Lombard
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       日本語
       پنجابی
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Tagalog
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 February 2022, at 23:02&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
