
 
  
   
  Social information seeking - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Social information seeking 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Social information seeking (SIS) is a field of research that involves studying situations, motivations, and methods for people seeking and sharing information in participatory online social sites, such as Yahoo! Answers, Answerbag, WikiAnswers and Twitter as well as building systems for supporting such activities. Highly related topics involve traditional and virtual reference services, information retrieval, information extraction, and knowledge representation.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Background 
        2 Research questions 
        3 Friendsourcing in social Q&amp;A 
        4 Social Q&amp;A services 
          
          4.1 Presenting information needs 
          4.2 Responding to information needs 
          4.3 Participation as a community 
           
        5 Authority detection in social media 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Background 
      Social information seeking is often materialized in online question-answering (QA) websites, which are driven by a community. Such QA sites have emerged in the past few years as an enormous market, so to speak, for the fulfillment of information needs. Estimates of the volume of questions answered are difficult to come by, but it is likely that the number of questions answered on social/community QA (cQA) sites far exceeds the number of questions answered by library reference services, which until recently were one of the few institutional sources for such question answering. cQA sites make their content – questions and associated answers submitted on the site – available on the open web, and indexable by search engines, thus enabling web users to find answers provided for previously asked questions in response to new queries. 
      The popularity of such sites have been increasing dramatically for the past several years. Major sites that provide a general platform for questions of all types include Yahoo! Answers, Answerbag and Quora. While other sites that focus on particular fields; for example, StackOverflow (computing). StackOverflow has 3.45 million questions, 1.3 million users and over 6.86 million answers since July 2008 while Quora has 437 thousand questions, 264 thousand users and 979 thousand answers. 
      Social Q&amp;A or cQA, according to Shah et al., consists of three components: a mechanism for users to submit questions in natural language, a venue for users to submit answers to questions, and a community built around this exchange. Viewed in that light, online communities have performed a question answering function perhaps since the advent of Usenet and Bulletin Board Systems, so in one sense cQA is nothing new. Websites dedicated to cQA, however, have emerged on the web only within the past few years: the first cQA site was the Korean Naver Knowledge iN, launched in 2002, while the first English-language CQA site was Answerbag, launched in April 2003. Despite this short history, however, cQA has already attracted a great deal of attention from researchers investigating information seeking behaviors, selection of resources, social annotations, user motivations, comparisons with other types of question answering services, and a range of other information-related behaviors.  
      Research questions 
      Some of the interesting and important research questions in this area include:  
      
       What causes people to be involved in social Q&amp;A? 
       What is the motivation of people who participate in social Q&amp;A? 
       Why do questioners choose social Q&amp;A as a source to find information? 
       Why do they ask questions online to people whose background or expertise may be unverified? 
       Why do they choose social Q&amp;A over other sources to look for information? 
       What do they expect from answers given by anonymous people on the Web? 
       Why are the answerers willing to share information and knowledge with anonymous people, for free? 
       Why do they spend time and effort to find information and help others online? Why are they willing to expose their personal stories to people and inform others with their experiences?
       
      Shah et al. provide a detailed research agenda for social Q&amp;A. A new book by Shah presents a more recent and comprehensive information pertaining to SIS.  
      Friendsourcing in social Q&amp;A 
      Friendsourcing is an important component of social question and answering, including how to route questions to friends or others who will most likely answer the question. The important questions include what people's behaviors are in social networks, especially what kinds of questions people ask from their social networks and how different question types affect the frequency, speed and quality of answers they receive. 
      Morris et al. (2010) conducted a survey of question and answering within social networks with 624 people, and gathered detailed data about the behavior of Q&amp;A, including frequency, types of questions and answers, and motivations. They found that half (50.6%) of respondents reported having used their status messages to ask a question, which indicated that Q&amp;A on social networks is popular. Also, the types of questions people asked include recommendation, opinion, factual knowledge, rhetorical, etc. And motivations for asking include trust, asking subjective questions, etc. Their analysis also explored the relationships between answer speed and quality, questions’ property and participants’ property. Only a very small portion (6.5%) of the questions were answered, but the 89.3% of the respondents were satisfied with the response time they experienced even though there's a discrepancy between that and expectation. Also, the responses gathered via social networks appear to be very valuable. Their findings implied design for search tools that could combine the speed and breadth of traditional search engines with the trustworthiness, personalization, and the high engagement of social media Q&amp;A. 
      Paul et al. (2011) did a study on question and answering on Twitter, and found that out of the 1152 questions they examined, the most popular question types asked on Twitter were rhetorical (42%) and factual (16%). Surprisingly, along with entertainment (29%) and technology (29%) questions, people asked personal and health-related questions (11%). Only 18.7% questions received response, while a handful of questions received a high number of responses. The larger the askers’ network, the more responses she received; however, posting more tweets or posting more frequently did not increase chances of receiving a response. Most often the “follow” relationship between asker and answerer was one-way. Paul et al. also examined what factors of the askers would increase the chance of getting a response and found that more relevant responses are received when there is a mutual relationship between askers and answerers. Intuitively, we would expect this, as mutual relationship would indicate stronger tie strength and hence, more number of relevant answers.  
      Social Q&amp;A services 
      Existing social Q&amp;A services can be characterized from the three perspectives, by the definition of social Q&amp;A as a service involving (1) a method for presenting information needs, (2) a place for responding to information need, and (3) participation as a community.  
      Presenting information needs 
      These social networks support various friendsourcing behavior, provide information benefits that oftentimes traditional search tools cannot, and also may reinforce social bonds through the process. However, there are many questions and limitations that may prevent people from asking questions on their social networks. For example, they may feel uncomfortable asking questions that are too private, might not want to cost too much other people's time and effort, or might feel the burden of social debts. 
      Rzeszotarski and Morris (2014) took a novel approach to explore the perceived social costs of friendsourcing on Twitter via monetary choices. They modeled friendsourcing costs across users, and compared it with crowdsourcing on Amazon Mechanical Turk. Their findings suggested interesting design considerations for minimizing social cost by building a hybrid system combining friendsourcing and crowdsourcing with microtask markets.  
      Responding to information needs 
      Sometimes, only asking question from people's own social networks or friends is not enough. If the question is obscure or time sensitive, no members of their social networks may know the answer. For example, this person's friends might not have expertise in providing evaluations for a specific model of digital camera. Also asking the current wait time for security at the local airport might not be possible if none of this person's friends are currently at the airport. 
      Nichols and Kang (2012) leveraged Twitter for question and answering with targeted strangers by taking advantage of its public accessibility. In their approach, they mined the public status updates posted on Twitter to find strangers with potentially useful information, and send questions to these strangers to collect responses. As a feasibility study, they collected information regarding response rate, and response time. 42% of users responded to questions from strangers, and 44% of the responses arrived within 30 minutes.  
      Participation as a community 
      Another important and unique component of social Q&amp;A system is that it is a community which allows members to form relationships and bonds, so that their behavior in these social Q&amp;A services will also add to their social capital. 
      Gray et al. (2013) explored how bridging social capital, question type and relational closeness influence the perceived usefulness and satisfaction of information obtained through questions asked on Facebook. Their results indicated that bridging social capital could positively predict the perceived utility of the acquired information, meaning that information exchanges on social networks is an effective way of social capital conversion. Also, useful answers are more likely to be received from weak ties than strong ties.  
      Authority detection in social media 
      In order to recommend the most appropriate users to provide answers in a social network, we need to find approaches to detect users' authority in a social network. In the field of information retrieval, there has been a trend of research investigating ways to detect users' authority effectively and accurately in a social network. 
      Cha et al. investigate possible metrics for determining authority users on popular social network Twitter. They propose the following three simple network-based metrics and discuss their usefulness in determining a user's influence.  
      
       indegree (followers count) 
       retweet count 
       mention count
       
      An initial analysis of the three aforementioned metrics showed that the users with the highest indegrees and the users with the highest retweet/mention counts were not the same. The top 1% of users by indegree are shown to have very low correlation with the same percentile of users by retweets and by mentions. This implies that follower count is not useful in determining whether a user's tweets get retweeted or whether the other users engage with them. 
      Pal et al. designed features to measure a user's authority on a certain topic. For example, retweet impact refers to how many times a certain user has been retweeted on a certain topic. The impact is dampened by a factor measuring how many times the user had been retweeted by a unique author to avoid the cases when a user has fans who retweet regardless of the content. They first used a clustering approach to find the target cluster which has the highest average score across all features, and used a ranking algorithm to find the most authoritative users within the cluster. 
      With these authority detection methods, social Q&amp;A could be more effective in providing accurate answers to askers.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Čižmešija, Antonela (March 2018). "STUDENTS' INFORMATION SEEKING BEHAVIOR IN ONLINE ENVIRONMENT USING WEB 2.0 TOOLS". INTED2018 Proceedings. IATED. doi:10.21125/inted.2018.1636. ISBN&nbsp;978-84-697-9480-7.  
         ^ Janes, J. (2003). The Global Census of Digital Reference. In 5th Annual VRD Conference. San Antonio, TX.  
         ^ Wang, G., Gill, K., Mohanlal, M., Zheng, H., &amp; Zhao, B. Y. (2013, May). Wisdom in the social crowd: an analysis of Quora. In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web (pp. 1341-1352). International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee  
         ^ Shah, C., Oh, S., &amp; Oh, J-S. (2009). Research Agenda for Social Q&amp;A. Library and Information Science Research, 11(4), 205-209.  
         ^ Kim, S., Oh, J-S., &amp; Oh, S. (2007). Best-Answer Selection Criteria in a Social Q&amp;A site from the User Oriented Relevance Perspective. Proceedings of the 70th Annual Meeting of the American Society for Information Science and Technology (ASIST ‘07), 44.  
         ^ Harper, M. F., Raban, D. R., Rafaeli, S., &amp; Konstan, J. K. (2008). Predictors of answer quality in online Q&amp;A sites. In Proceedings of the 26th Annual SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 865−874). New York: ACM.  
         ^ Gazan, R. (2008). Social annotations in digital library collections. D-Lib Magazine, 11/12(14). Available from http://www.dlib.org/dlib/november08/gazan/11gazan.html.  
         ^ Shah, C., Oh, J. S., &amp; Oh, S. (2008). Exploring characteristics and effects of user participation in online social Q&amp;A sites. First Monday, 13(9). Available from http://www.uic.edu/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/2182/2028.  
         ^ Su, Q., Pavlov, D., Chow, J., &amp; Baker, W. (2007). Internet-scale collection of human- reviewed data. In C. L. Williamson, M. E. Zurko, P. E. Patel-Schneider, &amp; P. J. Shenoy (Eds.), Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web (pp. 231−240). New York: ACM.  
         ^ Shah, C., Oh, S., &amp; Oh, J. S. (2009). Research agenda for social Q&amp;A. Library &amp; Information Science Research, 31(4), 205-209. Retrieved January 2, 2011.  
         ^ Shah, C. (2017). Social Information Seeking: Leveraging the Wisdom of the Crowd. The Information Retrieval (IR) series. Berlin, Germany: Springer. 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-56756-3. (187 pages)  
         ^ Liu, Z., and Jansen, B. J. (2015) Analysis of Question and Answering Behavior in Question Routing Services. 21st International Conference on Collaboration and Technology (CRIWG 2015). Yerevan, Armenia. 22 – 25 Sept., p.72-85  
         ^ 
           Morris, Meredith Ringel; Teevan, Jaime; Panovich, Katrina (2010-01-01). "What Do People Ask Their Social Networks, and Why?: A Survey Study of Status Message Q&amp;a Behavior". Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. CHI '10. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 1739–1748. doi:10.1145/1753326.1753587. ISBN&nbsp;9781605589299.  
         ^ Paul, S. A., Hong, L., &amp; Chi, E. H. (2011, May). Is Twitter a Good Place for Asking Questions? A Characterization Study. In ICWSM.  
         ^ 
           Rzeszotarski, Jeffrey M.; Morris, Meredith Ringel (2014-01-01). "Estimating the Social Costs of Friendsourcing". Proceedings of the 32Nd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. CHI '14. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 2735–2744. doi:10.1145/2556288.2557181. ISBN&nbsp;9781450324731.  
         ^ 
           Nichols, Jeffrey; Kang, Jeon-Hyung (2012-01-01). "Asking Questions of Targeted Strangers on Social Networks". Proceedings of the ACM 2012 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work. CSCW '12. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 999–1002. doi:10.1145/2145204.2145352. ISBN&nbsp;9781450310864.  
         ^ 
           Gray, Rebecca; Ellison, Nicole B.; Vitak, Jessica; Lampe, Cliff (2013-01-01). "Who Wants to Know?: Question-asking and Answering Practices Among Facebook Users". Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work. CSCW '13. New York, NY, USA: ACM: 1213–1224. doi:10.1145/2441776.2441913. ISBN&nbsp;9781450313315.  
         ^ Cha, M., Haddadi, H., Benevenuto, F., &amp; Gummadi, P. K. (2010). Measuring User Influence in Twitter: The Million Follower Fallacy. ICWSM, 10(10-17), 30.  
         ^ Pal, A., &amp; Counts, S. (2011, February). Identifying topical authorities in microblogs. In Proceedings of the fourth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining (pp. 45-54). ACM.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      People associated with social information seeking include:  
      
       Eugene Agichtein 
       Rich Gazan 
       Jung Sun Oh 
       Sanghee Oh 
       Jeffrey Pomerantz 
       Chirag Shah
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Social_information_seeking&amp;oldid=1014110870"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Social information processing
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 March 2021, at 07:05&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
