
 
  
   
  Multimedia information retrieval - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Multimedia information retrieval 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                   A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (July 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (July 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Multimedia information retrieval (MMIR or MIR) is a research discipline of computer science that aims at extracting semantic information from multimedia data sources. Data sources include directly perceivable media such as audio, image and video, indirectly perceivable sources such as text, semantic descriptions, biosignals as well as not perceivable sources such as bioinformation, stock prices, etc. The methodology of MMIR can be organized in three groups:  
      
       Methods for the summarization of media content (feature extraction). The result of feature extraction is a description. 
       Methods for the filtering of media descriptions (for example, elimination of redundancy) 
       Methods for the categorization of media descriptions into classes.
       
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Feature extraction methods 
        2 Merging and filtering methods 
        3 Categorization methods 
        4 Open problems 
        5 Related areas 
        6 References 
        
       
      Feature extraction methods 
      Feature extraction is motivated by the sheer size of multimedia objects as well as their redundancy and, possibly, noisiness.: 2  Generally, two possible goals can be achieved by feature extraction:  
      
       Summarization of media content. Methods for summarization include in the audio domain, for example, mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, Zero Crossings Rate, Short-Time Energy. In the visual domain, color histograms such as the MPEG-7 Scalable Color Descriptor can be used for summarization. 
       Detection of patterns by auto-correlation and/or cross-correlation. Patterns are recurring media chunks that can either be detected by comparing chunks over the media dimensions (time, space, etc.) or comparing media chunks to templates (e.g. face templates, phrases). Typical methods include Linear Predictive Coding in the audio/biosignal domain, texture description in the visual domain and n-grams in text information retrieval.
       
      Merging and filtering methods 
      Multimedia Information Retrieval implies that multiple channels are employed for the understanding of media content. Each of this channels is described by media-specific feature transformations. The resulting descriptions have to be merged to one description per media object. Merging can be performed by simple concatenation if the descriptions are of fixed size. Variable-sized descriptions – as they frequently occur in motion description – have to be normalized to a fixed length first. 
      Frequently used methods for description filtering include factor analysis (e.g. by PCA), singular value decomposition (e.g. as latent semantic indexing in text retrieval) and the extraction and testing of statistical moments. Advanced concepts such as the Kalman filter are used for merging of descriptions.  
      Categorization methods 
      Generally, all forms of machine learning can be employed for the categorization of multimedia descriptions: 125  though some methods are more frequently used in one area than another. For example, hidden Markov models are state-of-the-art in speech recognition, while dynamic time warping – a semantically related method – is state-of-the-art in gene sequence alignment. The list of applicable classifiers includes the following:  
      
       Metric approaches (Cluster analysis, vector space model, Minkowski distances, dynamic alignment) 
       Nearest Neighbor methods (K-nearest neighbors algorithm, K-means, self-organizing map) 
       Risk Minimization (Support vector regression, support vector machine, linear discriminant analysis) 
       Density-based Methods (Bayes nets, Markov processes, mixture models) 
       Neural Networks (Perceptron, associative memories, spiking nets) 
       Heuristics (Decision trees, random forests, etc.)
       
      The selection of the best classifier for a given problem (test set with descriptions and class labels, so-called ground truth) can be performed automatically, for example, using the Weka Data Miner.  
      Open problems 
      The quality of MMIR Systems depends heavily on the quality of the training data. Discriminative descriptions can be extracted from media sources in various forms. Machine learning provides categorization methods for all types of data. However, the classifier can only be as good as the given training data. On the other hand, it requires considerable effort to provide class labels for large databases. The future success of MMIR will depend on the provision of such data. The annual TRECVID competition is currently one of the most relevant sources of high-quality ground truth.  
      Related areas 
      MMIR provides an overview over methods employed in the areas of information retrieval. Methods of one area are adapted and employed on other types of media. Multimedia content is merged before the classification is performed. MMIR methods are, therefore, usually reused from other areas such as:  
      
       Bioinformation analysis 
       Biosignal processing 
       Content-based image and video retrieval 
       Face recognition 
       Audio and music classification (Music information retrieval) 
       Automatic content recognition 
       Speech recognition 
       Technical chart analysis 
       Video browsing 
       Text information retrieval 
       Image retrieval 
       Learning to rank
       
      The International Journal of Multimedia Information Retrieval documents the development of MMIR as a research discipline that is independent of these areas. See also Handbook of Multimedia Information Retrieval for a complete overview over this research discipline.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c H Eidenberger. Fundamental Media Understanding, atpress, 2011, p. 1.  
         ^ Sikos, L. F. (2016). "RDF-powered semantic video annotation tools with concept mapping to Linked Data for next-generation video indexing: a comprehensive review". Multimedia Tools and Applications. 76 (12): 14437–14460. doi:10.1007/s11042-016-3705-7.  
         ^ A Del Bimbo. Visual Information Retrieval, Morgan Kaufmann, 1999.  
         ^ HG Kim, N Moreau, T Sikora. MPEG-7 Audio and Beyond", Wiley, 2005.  
         ^ MS Lew (Ed.). Principles of Visual Information Retrieval, Springer, 2001.  
         ^ JC Nordbotten. "Multimedia Information Retrieval Systems". Retrieved 14 October 2011.  
         ^ H Eidenberger. Frontiers of Media Understanding, atpress, 2012.  
         ^ H Eidenberger. Professional Media Understanding, atpress, 2012.  
         ^ 
           Raieli, Roberto (2016). "Introducing Multimedia Information Retrieval to libraries". JLIS.it. 7 (3): 9–42. doi:10.4403/jlis.it-11530.  
         ^ "International Journal of Multimedia Information Retrieval", Springer, 2011, Retrieved 21 October 2011.  
         ^ H Eidenberger. Handbook of Multimedia Information Retrieval, atpress, 2012.  
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Multimedia_information_retrieval&amp;oldid=1007396177"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information retrieval genres
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from July 2014
       Articles that may contain original research from July 2014
       All articles that may contain original research
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       Use dmy dates from February 2021
       All articles with failed verification
       Articles with failed verification from July 2014
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 17 February 2021, at 22:44&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
