
 
  
   
  Query understanding - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Query understanding 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Query understanding is the process of inferring the intent of a search engine user by extracting semantic meaning from the searcher’s keywords. Query understanding methods generally take place before the search engine retrieves and ranks results. It is related to natural language processing but specifically focused on the understanding of search queries. Query understanding is at the heart of technologies like Amazon Alexa, Apple's Siri. Google Assistant, IBM's Watson, and Microsoft's Cortana.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Methods 
          
          1.1 Tokenization 
          1.2 Spelling correction 
          1.3 Stemming and lemmatization 
          1.4 Entity recognition 
          1.5 Query rewriting 
           
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        
       
      Methods 
      Tokenization 
      Tokenization is the process of breaking up a text string into words or other meaningful elements called tokens. Typically, tokenization occurs at the word level. However, it is sometimes difficult to define what is meant by a "word". Often a tokenizer relies on simple heuristics, such as splitting the string on punctuation and whitespace characters. Tokenization is more challenging in languages without spaces between words, such as Chinese and Japanese. Tokenizing text in these languages requires the use of word segmentation algorithms.  
      Spelling correction 
      Spelling correction is the process of automatically detecting and correcting spelling errors in search queries. Most spelling correction algorithms are based on a language model, which determines the a priori probability of an intended query, and an error model (typically a noisy channel model), which determines the probability of a particular misspelling, given an intended query.  
      Stemming and lemmatization 
      Many, but not all, language inflect words to reflect their role in the utterance they appear in: a word such as *care* may appear as, besides the base form. as *cares*, *cared*, *caring*, and others. The variation between various forms of a word is likely to be of little importance for the relatively coarse-grained model of meaning involved in a retrieval system, and for this reason the task of conflating the various forms of a word is a potentially useful technique to increase recall of a retrieval system. 
      The languages of the world vary in how much morphological variation they exhibit, and for some languages there are simple methods to reduce a word in query to its lemma or root form or its stem. For some other languages, this operation involves non-trivial string processing. A noun in English typically appears in four variants: *cat* *cat's* *cats* *cats'* or *child* *child´s* *children* *children's*. Other languages have more variation. Finnish, e.g., potentially exhibits about 5000 forms for a noun, and for many languages the inflectional forms are not limited to affixes but change the core of the word itself. 
      Stemming algorithms, also known as stemmers, typically use a collection of simple rules to remove suffixes intended to model the language’s inflection rules. 
      More advanced methods, lemmatisation methods, group together the inflected forms of a word through more complex rule sets based on a word’s part of speech or its record in a lexical database, transforming an inflected word through lookup or a series of transformations to its lemma. For a long time, it was taken to be proven that morphological normalisation by and large did not help retrieval performance. 
      Once the attention of the information retrieval field moved to languages other than English, it was found that for some languages there were obvious gains to be found.  
      Entity recognition 
      Entity recognition is the process of locating and classifying entities within a text string. Named-entity recognition specifically focuses on named entities, such as names of people, places, and organizations. In addition, entity recognition includes identifying concepts in queries that may be represented by multi-word phrases. Entity recognition systems typically use grammar-based linguistic techniques or statistical machine learning models.  
      Query rewriting 
      Query rewriting is the process of automatically reformulating a search query to more accurately capture its intent. Query expansion adds additional query terms, such as synonyms, in order to retrieve more documents and thereby increase recall. Query relaxation removes query terms to reduce the requirements for a document to match the query, thereby also increasing recall. Other forms of query rewriting, such as automatically converting consecutive query terms into phrases and restricting query terms to specific fields, aim to increase precision. Apache Lucene search engine  uses query rewrite to transform complex queries to more primitive queries, such as expressions with wildcards (e.g. quer*) into a boolean query of the matching terms from the index (such as query OR queries).  
      See also 
      
       Daniel Tunkelang's blog on Query Understanding 
       ACM SIGIR 2010 Workshop Report on Query Representation and Understanding 
       Proceedings of ACM SIGIR 2011 Workshop on Query Representation and Understanding 
       ACM WSDM 2016 Workshop on Query Understanding for Search on All Devices 
       Query Understanding for Search Engines (Yi Chang and Hongbo Deng, Eds.)
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR) 2010 Workshop on Query Representation and Understanding" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Amazon AI - Artificial Intelligence".  
         ^ 
           "iOS - Siri - Apple".  
         ^ 
           "How Google uses machine learning in its search algorithms".  
         ^ 
           "When Watson met Siri: Apple's IBM deal could make Siri a lot smarter".  
         ^ 
           "The story of Cortana, Microsoft's Siri killer".  
         ^ 
           "Tokenization".  
         ^ 
           "How to Write a Spelling Corrector".  
         ^  
           Lowe, Thomas; Roberts, David; Kurtz, Peterdate=1973. Additional Text Processing for On-Line Retrieval (The RADCOL System). Volume 1. DTIC Document. 
           Lennon, Martin; Peirce, David; Tarry, Brian D; Willett, Peter (1981). "An evaluation of some conflation algorithms for information retrieval". Information Scientist. SAGE. 3 (4).  
         ^  
           Karlsson, Fred (2008). Finnish: an essential grammar. Routledge.  
         ^  
           Lovins, Julie (1968). Development of a stemming algorithm. MIT Information Processing Group.  
         ^  
           Harman, Donna (1991). "How Effective is Suffixing?". Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 42 (1): 7–15. doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-4571(199101)42:1&lt;7::AID-ASI2&gt;3.0.CO;2-P.  
         ^ 
           Popovic, Mirkoc; Willett, Peter (1981). "The effectiveness of stemming for natural-language access to Slovene textual data". Information Scientist. SAGE. 3 (4).  
         ^ 
           "A Survey of Named Entity Recognition and Classification" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Apache Lucene".  
         ^ 
           "Query in Lucene 6.4.1 API documentation".  
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Query_understanding&amp;oldid=1020700779"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information retrieval techniques
       Natural language processing
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 April 2021, at 15:34&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
