
 
  
   
  Information architecture - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information architecture 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         Information science
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
           
           
            Access 
            Architecture 
            Behavior 
            Management 
            Retrieval 
            Seeking 
            Society 
            Knowledge organization 
            Ontology 
            Philosophy 
            Science and technology studies 
            Taxonomy
            
           
        
        
          Related fields and sub-fields
        
        
          
           
           
            Bibliometrics 
            Categorization 
            Censorship 
            Classification 
            Computer data storage 
            Cultural studies 
            Data modeling 
            Informatics 
            Information technology 
            Intellectual freedom 
            Intellectual property 
            Library and information science 
            Memory 
            Preservation 
            Privacy 
            Quantum information science
            
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Information architecture (IA) is the structural design of shared information environments; the art and science of organizing and labelling websites, intranets, online communities and software to support usability and findability; and an emerging community of practice focused on bringing principles of design, architecture and information science to the digital landscape. Typically, it involves a model or concept of information that is used and applied to activities which require explicit details of complex information systems. These activities include library systems and database development.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Definition 
          
          1.1 Debate 
           
        2 Notable people in information architecture 
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        5 Bibliography 
        6 Further reading 
        
       
      Definition 
      Information architecture has somewhat different meanings in different branches of Information systems or Information technology:  
      
       The structural design of shared information environments.: 4  
       The art and science of organizing and labeling web sites, intranets, online communities, and software to support findability and usability. 
       An emerging community of practice focused on bringing principles of design and architecture to the digital landscape.: 4  
       The combination of organization, labeling, search and navigation systems within websites and intranets.: 4  
       Extracting required parameters/data of Engineering Designs in the process of creating a knowledge-base linking different systems and standards. 
       A blueprint and navigational aid to the content of information-rich systems. 
       A subset of data architecture where usable data (a.k.a. information) is constructed in and designed or arranged in a fashion most useful or empirically holistic to the users of this data. 
       The practice of organizing the information / content / functionality of a web site so that it presents the best user experience it can, with information and services being easily usable and findable (as applied to web design and development). 
       The conceptual framework surrounding information, providing context, awareness of location and sustainable structure.
       
      Debate 
      The difficulty in establishing a common definition for "information architecture" arises partly from the term's existence in multiple fields. In the field of systems design, for example, information architecture is a component of enterprise architecture that deals with the information component when describing the structure of an enterprise. 
      While the definition of information architecture is relatively well-established in the field of systems design, it is much more debatable within the context of online information(i.e., websites). Andrew Dillon refers to the latter as the "big IA–little IA debate". In the little IA view, information architecture is essentially the application of information science to web design which considers, for example, issues of classification and information retrieval. In the big IA view, information architecture involves more than just the organization of a website; it also factors in user experience, thereby considering usability issues of information design.  
      Notable people in information architecture 
      
       Richard Saul Wurman, credited with coining the term information architecture in relation to the design of information 
       Peter Morville, president of Semantic Studios and co-author of Information Architecture for the World Wide Web (1998, 2002, 2006, 2015) 
       Louis Rosenfeld, founder of Rosenfeld Media and co-author of Information Architecture for the World Wide Web (1998, 2002, 2006, 2015) 
       Jesse James Garrett 
       Christina Wodtke
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Applications architecture 
        Card sorting 
        Chief experience officer 
        Content management 
        Content strategy 
        Controlled vocabulary 
        Data management 
        Data presentation architecture 
        Digital humanities 
        Ecological interface design 
        Enterprise information security architecture 
        Faceted classification 
        Human factors and ergonomics 
        Informatics 
        Information mapping 
        Interaction design 
        Process architecture 
        Site map 
        Social information architecture 
        Tree testing 
        User experience design 
        Visualization (graphics) §&nbsp;Knowledge visualization 
        Wayfinding 
        Web graph 
        Web literacy (Infrastructure)
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "What is IA?" (PDF). Information Architecture Institute. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help).  
         ^ a b c Morville &amp; Rosenfeld 2007.  
         ^ Morville&nbsp;&amp; Rosenfeld (2000). p.&nbsp;4. "The art and science of shaping information products and experienced to support usability and findability."  
         ^ Resmini, A. &amp; Rosati, L. (2012). A Brief History of Information Architecture. Journal of Information Architecture. Vol. 3, No. 2. . Originally published in Resmini, A. &amp; Rosati L. (2011). Pervasive Information Architecture. Morgan Kaufmann. (Edited by the authors).  
         ^ 
           Toms, Elaine (17 May 2012). "Information interaction: Providing a framework for information architecture". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 53 (10.1002/asi.10094): 855–862. doi:10.1002/asi.10094.  
         ^ 
           "Information Architecture". Mozilla Developer Network.  
         ^ 
           Dillon, A (2002). "Information Architecture in JASIST: Just where did we come from?". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 53 (10): 821–23. doi:10.1002/asi.10090..  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
        Wurman, Richard Saul (1997). Information Architects (1st&nbsp;ed.). Graphis Inc. ISBN&nbsp;1-888-00138-0. 
       
        Morville, Peter; Rosenfeld, Louis (2007). Information architecture for the World Wide Web (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly &amp; Associates. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-596-52734-1. information architecture. 
       
        Wodtke, Christina (2009). Information Architecture - Blueprints for the Web (2nd&nbsp;ed.). New Riders. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-321-60080-6. 
       
        Resmini, Andrea; Rosati, Luca (2011). Pervasive Information Architecture - Designing Cross-channel User Experiences (1st&nbsp;ed.). Morgan Kaufmann. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-123-82094-5. 
       
        Van Dijck, Peter (August 1, 2003). Information Architecture for Designers: Structuring Websites for Business Success. Rotovision. ISBN&nbsp;9782880467319.
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Sue Batley (January 2007). Information Architecture for Information Professionals. Woodhead Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84334-233-5. 
       
        Wei Ding; Xia Lin (15 May 2009). Information Architecture: The Design and Integration of Information Spaces. Morgan &amp; Claypool. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59829-959-5. 
       
        Earl Morrogh (2003). Information Architecture: An Emerging 21st Century Profession. Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;9780130967466. 
       
        Alan Gilchrist; Barry Mahon (2004). Information Architecture: Designing Information Environments for Purpose. Facet. ISBN&nbsp;9781856044875.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Semantic Web
           
         
         
          Background
          
            
            
             Databases 
             Hypertext 
             Internet 
             Ontologies 
             Semantics 
             Semantic networks 
             World Wide Web
             
           
         
         
          Sub-topics
          
            
            
             Dataspaces 
             Hyperdata 
             Linked data 
             Rule-based systems
             
           
         
         
          Applications
          
            
            
             Semantic analytics 
             Semantic broker 
             Semantic computing 
             Semantic mapper 
             Semantic matching 
             Semantic publishing 
             Semantic reasoner 
             Semantic search 
             Semantic service-oriented architecture 
             Semantic wiki
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Collective intelligence 
             Description logic 
             Folksonomy 
             Geotagging 
             Information architecture 
             Knowledge extraction 
             Knowledge management 
             Knowledge representation and reasoning 
             Library 2.0 
             Digital library 
             Digital humanities 
             Metadata 
             References 
             Topic map 
             Web 2.0 
             Web engineering 
             Web Science Trust
             
           
         
         
          Standards
          
           
           
            
             
              Syntax and supporting technologies
              
                
                
                 HTTP 
                 IRI 
                  
                   URI
                   
                 RDF 
                  
                   triples 
                   RDF/XML 
                   JSON-LD 
                   Turtle 
                   TriG 
                   Notation3 
                   N-Triples 
                   TriX (no W3C standard)
                   
                 RRID 
                 SPARQL 
                 XML 
                 Semantic HTML
                 
               
             
             
              Schemas, ontologies and rules
              
                
                
                 Common Logic 
                 OWL 
                 RDFS 
                 Rule Interchange Format 
                 Semantic Web Rule Language 
                 ALPS 
                 SHACL
                 
               
             
             
              Semantic annotation
              
                
                
                 eRDF 
                 GRDDL 
                 Microdata 
                 Microformats 
                 RDFa 
                 SAWSDL 
                 Facebook Platform
                 
               
             
             
              Common vocabularies
              
                
                
                 DOAP 
                 Dublin Core 
                 FOAF 
                 Schema.org 
                 SIOC 
                 SKOS
                 
               
             
             
              Microformat vocabularies
              
                
                
                 hAtom 
                 hCalendar 
                 hCard 
                 hProduct 
                 hRecipe 
                 hReview
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_architecture&amp;oldid=1069276175"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information architecture
       Data management
       Enterprise architecture
       Information architects
       Information governance
       Information science
       Information technology management
       Information technology
       Records management
       Technical communication
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 February 2022, at 13:35&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
