
 
  
   
  C. J. van Rijsbergen - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   C. J. van Rijsbergen 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.Find sources:&nbsp;"C. J. van Rijsbergen"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (January 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Cornelis Joost van Rijsbergen
          
        
        
         
          
           C. J. "Keith" van Rijsbergen
          
        
        
         Born
         1943 (age&nbsp;78–79)
          
           Rotterdam, Netherlands
          
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         University of Western Australia, University of Cambridge
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Information Retrieval
        
        
         Institutions
         Monash University, University of Glasgow
        
        
          
        
       
       
      C. J. "Keith" van Rijsbergen FREng (Cornelis Joost van Rijsbergen) (born 1943) is a professor of computer science at the University of Glasgow, where he founded the Glasgow Information Retrieval Group. He is one of the founders of modern Information Retrieval and the author of the seminal monograph Information Retrieval and of the textbook The Geometry of Information Retrieval. 
      He was born in Rotterdam, and educated in the Netherlands, Indonesia, Namibia and Australia. His first degree is in mathematics from the University of Western Australia, and in 1972 he completed a PhD in computer science at the University of Cambridge. He spent three years lecturing in information retrieval and artificial intelligence at Monash University before returning to Cambridge to hold a Royal Society Information Research Fellowship. In 1980 he was appointed to the chair of computer science at University College Dublin; from there he moved in 1986 to Glasgow University. He chaired the Scientific Board of the Information Retrieval Facility from 2007 to 2012.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Awards and honors 
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Awards and honors 
      In 2003 he was inducted as a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery. In 2004 he was awarded the Tony Kent Strix award. In 2004 he was appointed a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. In 2006, he was awarded the Gerard Salton Award for Quantum haystacks.  
      See also 
      
       F1 score
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c "List of Fellows".  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       C. J. "Keith" van Rijsbergen - The University of Glasgow 
       Glasgow Information Retrieval Group 
       Information Retrieval book - C. J. van Rijsbergen 1979 
       Information Retrieval Facility 
       Works by or about C. J. van Rijsbergen in libraries (WorldCat catalog) 
       Interviewed by Alan Macfarlane 15 July 2009 (video)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Association for Computing Machinery 
             CiNii (Japan) 
             DBLP (computer science) 
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
           
          This article about a Dutch scientist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
          P&nbsp;≟&nbsp;NP&nbsp;
          This biographical article relating to a computer scientist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=C._J._van_Rijsbergen&amp;oldid=1035931828"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1943 births
       Living people
       Dutch computer scientists
       Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery
       Scientists from Rotterdam
       University of Western Australia alumni
       Information retrieval researchers
       Dutch scientist stubs
       Computer scientist stubs
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Use dmy dates from March 2014
       Use British English from March 2014
       BLP articles lacking sources from January 2012
       All BLP articles lacking sources
       Articles lacking in-text citations from January 2012
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with ACM-DL identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       All stub articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Deutsch
       Español
       Malagasy
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 28 July 2021, at 13:45&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
