
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  <meta name="citation_author_institution" content=" Institute of Systems Science, National University of Singapore, Heng Mui Keng Terrace, Singapore 119597
, , SG"> 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  An overview of audio information retrieval | SpringerLink 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
    
   Skip to main content 
    
    
     
     Advertisement 
      
     
    
    
     
      
        
         
          
          
          
       
         Search 
           
            
        
         
          <button class="c-header__link" type="submit" style="
        appearance: none;
        border: none;
        background: none;
        color: inherit;
    "> 
             
           Go to cart 
          
         
        
        
         
          Log in  
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
          Search SpringerLink 
           
             Search 
              
              
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
      
      
      
      
       
        
         
         Published: January 1999 
         
        An overview of audio information retrieval 
        
         Jonathan Foote1&nbsp;
         
         Multimedia Systems volume&nbsp;7,&nbsp;pages 2–10 (1999)Cite this article  
         
          
           
            
             1172 Accesses  
             187 Citations  
             9 Altmetric  
             Metrics details  
            
           
          
         
        
       
       
       
        
         Abstract.
         
           The problem of audio information retrieval is familiar to anyone who has returned from vacation to find an answering machine full of messages. While there is not yet an “AltaVista” for the audio data type, many workers are finding ways to automatically locate, index, and browse audio using recent advances in speech recognition and machine listening. This paper reviews the state of the art in audio information retrieval, and presents recent advances in automatic speech recognition, word spotting, speaker and music identification, and audio similarity with a view towards making audio less “opaque”. A special section addresses intelligent interfaces for navigating and browsing audio and multimedia documents, using automatically derived information to go beyond the tape recorder metaphor.
         
        
        
        
        This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution. 
        
        
          
         Access options 
          
          Buy single article 
           
            
            Instant access to the full article PDF. 
            
            
            USD 39.95 
            Price includes VAT (USA)Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. 
             
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
             
            
           
           
          
          
           
            
            Rent this article via DeepDyve. 
            
           
           
          
          
           
            
            Learn more about Institutional subscriptions 
            
           
          
          
          
         
        
        
        
       
       
        
         
        
       
       
        
         Author information
         
          Affiliations
          
            Institute of Systems Science, National University of Singapore, Heng Mui Keng Terrace, Singapore 119597 , SGJonathan Foote
          
          
           Authors
           
            Jonathan Foote
             
              
               View author publications
              
              
               You can also search for this author in PubMed&nbsp;Google Scholar
              
             
           
          
         
        
       
       
        
         Rights and permissions
         
          Reprints and Permissions
         
        
       
       
        
         About this article
         
          
           
            Cite this article
            Foote, J. An overview of audio information retrieval. Multimedia Systems 7, 2–10 (1999). https://doi.org/10.1007/s005300050106
            Download citation
              
               
              
            
             Issue Date: January 1999
             DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s005300050106
            
            
             
              Share this article
              Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:Get shareable link
              
               Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
              
              
               Copy to clipboard
              
               Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative 
             
            
            Keywords
            
             Information Retrieval
             Data Type
             Speech Recognition
             Special Section
             Tape Record
            
            
           
          
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
        
         
           
          Access options 
           
           Buy single article 
            
             
             Instant access to the full article PDF. 
             
             
             USD 39.95 
             Price includes VAT (USA)Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. 
              
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
              
             
            
            
           
           
            
             
             Rent this article via DeepDyve. 
             
            
            
           
           
            
             
             Learn more about Institutional subscriptions 
             
            
           
           
           
          
         
         
          
           
            
            Advertisement 
             
            
           
          
         
         
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
    
    
     
      
      Over 10 million scientific documents at your fingertips 
       Switch Edition 
        
         Academic Edition  
         Corporate Edition  
        
       
      
     
     
      
      Home 
      Impressum 
      Legal information 
      Privacy statement 
      California Privacy Statement 
      How we use cookies 
      Manage cookies/Do not sell my data 
      Accessibility 
      FAQ 
      Contact us 
      Affiliate program 
      
      
       Not logged in  - 185.242.5.178  
       Not affiliated  
       Springer Nature 
        
        
        
     © 2022 Springer Nature Switzerland AG. Part of Springer Nature. 
     
    
   
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
    
 
