
 
  
   
  Cultural studies - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Cultural studies 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Academic discipline concerning changes in power, societal norms, behaviors and artifacts
       
      
      
       For the journal, see Cultural Studies (journal).
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with culture theory.
       
        
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article contains embedded lists that may be poorly defined, unverified or indiscriminate. Please help to clean it up to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. Where appropriate, incorporate items into the main body of the article. (September 2021)
          
        
       
       
      Cultural studies is an interdisciplinary field that examines political dynamics of contemporary culture (including popular culture) and its historical foundations. Cultural studies researchers generally investigate how cultural practices relate to wider systems of power associated with, or operating through, social phenomena. These include ideology, class structures, national formations, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, and generation. Employing cultural analysis, cultural studies views cultures not as fixed, bounded, stable, and discrete entities, but rather as constantly interacting and changing sets of practices and processes. The field of cultural studies encompasses a range of theoretical and methodological perspectives and practices. Although distinct from the discipline of cultural anthropology and the interdisciplinary field of ethnic studies, cultural studies draws upon and has contributed to each of these fields. 
      Cultural studies was initially developed by British Marxist academics in the late 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, and has been subsequently taken up and transformed by scholars from many different disciplines around the world. Cultural studies is avowedly and even radically interdisciplinary and can sometimes be seen as anti-disciplinary. A key concern for cultural studies practitioners is the examination of the forces within and through which socially organized people conduct and participate in the construction of their everyday lives. 
      Cultural studies combines a variety of politically engaged critical approaches drawn including semiotics, Marxism, feminist theory, ethnography, post-structuralism, postcolonialism, social theory, political theory, history, philosophy, literary theory, media theory, film/video studies, communication studies, political economy, translation studies, museum studies and art history/criticism to study cultural phenomena in various societies and historical periods. Cultural studies seeks to understand how meaning is generated, disseminated, contested, bound up with systems of power and control, and produced from the social, political and economic spheres within a particular social formation or conjuncture. The movement has generated important theories of cultural hegemony and agency. Its practitioners attempt to explain and analyze the cultural forces related and processes of globalization. 
      During the rise of neoliberalism in Britain and the US, cultural studies both became a global movement, and attracted the attention of many conservative opponents both within and beyond universities for a variety of reasons. Some left-wing critics{ associated particularly with Marxist forms of political economy also attacked cultural studies contending it overstates the importance of cultural phenomena. A worldwide movement of students and practitioners with a raft of scholarly associations and programs, annual international conferences and publications carry on work in this field today. Distinct approaches to cultural studies have emerged in different national and regional contexts.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
          
          1.1 Sardar's characteristics 
           
        2 British cultural studies 
          
          2.1 Stuart Hall's directorship of CCCS at Birmingham 
          2.2 Late-1970s and beyond 
           
        3 Developments outside the UK 
        4 Issues, concepts, and approaches 
          
          4.1 Gramsci and hegemony 
          4.2 Structure and agency 
          4.3 Globalization 
          4.4 Cultural consumption 
          4.5 The concept of "text" 
           
        5 Academic reception 
          
          5.1 Literary scholars 
          5.2 Sociology 
          5.3 Physics (Alan Sokal) 
           
        6 Founding works 
        7 See also 
          
          7.1 Fields and theories 
          7.2 Organizations 
          7.3 Authors 
          7.4 Journals 
           
        8 References 
          
          8.1 Sources 
           
        9 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      Sardar's characteristics 
      In his 1994 book, Introducing Cultural Studies, orientalist scholar Ziauddin Sardar lists the following five main characteristics of cultural studies:  
      
       The objective of cultural studies is to understand culture in all its complex forms, and analyzing the social and political context in which culture manifests itself. 
       Cultural study is a site of both study/analysis and political criticism. For example, not only would a cultural studies scholar study an object, but they may also connect this study to a larger political project. 
       Cultural studies attempts to expose and reconcile constructed divisions of knowledge that purport to be grounded in nature. 
       Cultural studies has a commitment to an ethical evaluation of modern society. 
       One aim of cultural studies could be to examine cultural practices and their relation to power, following critical theory. For example, a study of a subculture (such as white working-class youth in London) would consider their social practices against those of the dominant culture (in this example, the middle and upper classes in London who control the political and financial sectors that create policies affecting the well-being of white working-class youth in London).
       
      British cultural studies 
      There are numerous published accounts of the history of cultural studies. 
      Dennis Dworkin writes that "a critical moment" in the beginning of cultural studies as a field was when Richard Hoggart used the term in 1964 in founding the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies (CCCS) at the University of Birmingham. The centre would become home to the development of the intellectual orientation that has become known internationally as the "Birmingham School" of cultural studies, thus becoming the world's first institutional home of cultural studies. 
      Hoggart appointed as his assistant Stuart Hall, who would effectively be directing CCCS by 1968. Hall formally assumed the directorship of CCCS in 1971, when Hoggart left Birmingham to become Assistant Director-General of UNESCO. Thereafter, the field of cultural studies became closely associated with Hall's work. In 1979, Hall left Birmingham to accept a prestigious chair in sociology at the Open University, and Richard Johnson took over the directorship of the centre. 
      In the late 1990s, "restructuring" at the University of Birmingham led to the elimination of CCCS and the creation of a new Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology (CSS) in 1999. Then, in 2002, the University's senior administration abruptly announced the disestablishment of CSS, provoking a substantial international outcry. The immediate reason for disestablishment of the new department was an unexpectedly low result in the UK's Research Assessment Exercise of 2001, though a dean from the university attributed the decision to "inexperienced ‘macho management’." The RAE, a holdover initiative of the Margaret Thatcher-led British government of 1986, determines research funding for university programs. 
      To trace the development of British Cultural Studies, see, for example, the work of Richard Hoggart, E. P. Thompson, Raymond Williams, Stuart Hall, Paul Willis, Angela McRobbie, Paul Gilroy, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, Richard Dyer, and others.  
      Stuart Hall's directorship of CCCS at Birmingham 
      Beginning in 1964, after the initial appearance of the founding works of British Cultural Studies in the late 1950s, Stuart Hall's pioneering work at CCCS, along with that of his colleagues and postgraduate students gave shape and substance to the field of cultural studies. This would include such people as Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, John Clarke, Richard Dyer, Judith Williamson, Richard Johnson, Iain Chambers, Dorothy Hobson, Chris Weedon, Tony Jefferson, Michael Green and Angela McRobbie. 
      Many cultural studies scholars employed Marxist methods of analysis, exploring the relationships between cultural forms (i.e., the superstructure) and that of the political economy (i.e., the base). By the 1970s, the work of Louis Althusser radically rethought the Marxist account of base and superstructure in ways that had a significant influence on the "Birmingham School." Much of the work done at CCCS studied youth-subcultural expressions of antagonism toward "respectable" middle-class British culture in the post-WWII period. Also during the 1970s, the politically formidable British working classes were in decline. Britain's manufacturing industries while continuing to grow in output and value, were decreasing in share of GDP and numbers employed, and union rolls were shrinking. Millions of working-class Britons backed the rise of Margaret Thatcher, through the labour losses. For Stuart Hall and his colleagues, this shift in loyalty from the Labour Party to the Conservative Party had to be explained in terms of cultural politics, which they had been tracking even before Thatcher's first victory. Some of this work was presented in the cultural studies classic, Policing the Crisis, and in other later texts such as Hall's The Hard Road to Renewal: Thatcherism and the Crisis of the Left, and New Times: The Changing Face of Politics in the 1990s.  
      Late-1970s and beyond 
      By the late 1970s, scholars associated with The Birmingham School had firmly placed questions of gender and race on the cultural studies agenda, where they have remained ever since. Also by the late 1970s, cultural studies had begun to attract a great deal of international attention. It spread globally throughout the 1980s and 1990s. As it did so, it both encountered new conditions of knowledge production, and engaged with other major international intellectual currents such as poststructuralism, postmodernism, and postcolonialism. The wide range of cultural studies journals now located throughout the world, as shown below, is one indication of the globalization of the field.  
      Developments outside the UK 
      In the US, prior to the emergence of British Cultural Studies, several versions of cultural analysis had emerged largely from pragmatic and liberal-pluralist philosophical traditions. However, in the late 1970s and 1980s, when British Cultural Studies began to spread internationally, and to engage with feminism, poststructuralism, postmodernism, and race, critical cultural studies (i.e., Marxist, feminist, poststructuralist, etc.) expanded tremendously in American universities in fields such as communication studies, education, sociology, and literature. Cultural Studies, the flagship journal of the field, has been based in the US since its founding editor, John Fiske, brought it there from Australia in 1987. 
      A thriving cultural studies scene has existed in Australia since the late 1970s, when several key CS practitioners emigrated there from the UK, taking British Cultural Studies with them, after Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister of the UK in 1979. A school of cultural studies known as cultural policy studies is one of the distinctive Australian contributions to the field, though it is not the only one. Australia also gave birth to the world's first professional cultural studies association (now known as the Cultural Studies Association of Australasia) in 1990. Cultural studies journals based in Australia include International Journal of Cultural Studies, Continuum: Journal of Media &amp; Cultural Studies, and Cultural Studies Review. 
      In Canada, cultural studies has sometimes focused on issues of technology and society, continuing the emphasis in the work of Marshall McLuhan, Harold Innis, and others. Cultural studies journals based in Canada include Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies. 
      In Africa, human rights and Third-World issues are among the central topics treated. There is a thriving cultural and media studies scholarship in Southern Africa, with its locus in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Cultural Studies journals based in Africa include the Journal of African Cultural Studies. 
      In Latin America, cultural studies have drawn on thinkers such as José Martí, Ángel Rama, and other Latin-American figures, in addition to the Western theoretical sources associated with cultural studies in other parts of the world. Leading Latin American cultural studies scholars include Néstor García Canclini, Jésus Martín-Barbero, and Beatriz Sarlo. Among the key issues addressed by Latin American cultural studies scholars are decoloniality, urban cultures, and postdevelopment theory. Latin American cultural studies journals include the Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies. 
      Even though cultural studies developed much more rapidly in the UK than in continental Europe, there is significant cultural studies presence in countries such as France, Spain, and Portugal. The field is relatively undeveloped in Germany, probably due to the continued influence of the Frankfurt School, which is now often said to be in its third generation, which includes notable figures such as Axel Honneth. Cultural studies journals based in continental Europe include the European Journal of Cultural Studies, the Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies, French Cultural Studies, and Portuguese Cultural Studies. 
      In Germany, the term cultural studies specifically refers to the field in the Anglosphere, especially British Cultural Studies, to differentiate it from the German Kulturwissenschaft which developed along different lines and is characterized by its distance from political science. However, Kulturwissenschaft and cultural studies are often used interchangeably, particularly by lay people. 
      Throughout Asia, cultural studies have boomed and thrived since at least the beginning of the 1990s. Cultural studies journals based in Asia include Inter-Asia Cultural Studies. In India, the Centre for Study of Culture and Society, Bangalore and the Department of Cultural Studies at The English and Foreign Languages and the University of Hyderabad are two major institutional spaces for Cultural Studies.  
      Issues, concepts, and approaches 
      Marxism has been an important influence upon cultural studies. Those associated with CCCS initially engaged deeply with the structuralism of Louis Althusser, and later in the 1970s turned decisively toward Antonio Gramsci. Cultural studies has also embraced the examination of race, gender, and other aspects of identity, as is illustrated, for example, by a number of key books published collectively under the name of CCCS in the late 1970s and early 1980s, including Women Take Issue: Aspects of Women's Subordination (1978), and The Empire Strikes Back: Race and Racism in 70s Britain (1982).  
      Gramsci and hegemony 
      To understand the changing political circumstances of class, politics, and culture in the United Kingdom, scholars at The Birmingham School turned to the work of Antonio Gramsci, an Italian thinker, writer, and Communist Party leader. Gramsci had been concerned with similar issues: why would Italian laborers and peasants vote for fascists? What strategic approach is necessary to mobilize popular support in more progressive directions? Gramsci modified classical Marxism, and argued that culture must be understood as a key site of political and social struggle. In his view, capitalists used not only brute force (police, prisons, repression, military) to maintain control, but also penetrated the everyday culture of working people in a variety of ways in their efforts to win popular "consent." 
      It is important to recognize that for Gramsci, historical leadership, or hegemony, involves the formation of alliances between class factions, and struggles within the cultural realm of everyday common sense. Hegemony was always, for Gramsci, an interminable, unstable and contested process. 
      Scott Lash writes:  
      
      
       In the work of Hall, Hebdige and McRobbie, popular culture came to the fore... What Gramsci gave to this was the importance of consent and culture. If the fundamental Marxists saw the power in terms of class-versus-class, then Gramsci gave to us a question of class alliance. The rise of cultural studies itself was based on the decline of the prominence of fundamental class-versus-class politics.
       
      Edgar and Sedgwick write:  
      
       The theory of hegemony was of central importance to the development of British cultural studies 
       
      Structure and agency 
      The development of hegemony theory in cultural studies was in some ways consonant with work in other fields exploring agency, a theoretical concept that insists on the active, critical capacities of subordinated people (e.g. the working classes, colonized peoples, women). As Stuart Hall famously argued in his 1981 essay, "Notes on Deconstructing 'the Popular'": "ordinary people are not cultural dopes." Insistence on accounting for the agency of subordinated people run counter to the work of traditional structuralists. Some analysts have however been critical of some work in cultural studies that they feel overstates the significance of or even romanticizes some forms of popular cultural agency. 
      Cultural studies often concerns itself with the agency at the level of the practices of everyday life, and approaches such research from a standpoint of radical contextualism. In other words, cultural studies rejects universal accounts of cultural practices, meanings, and identities. 
      Judith Butler, an American feminist theorist whose work is often associated with cultural studies, wrote that:  
      
       the move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence, and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure. It has marked a shift from a form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects to one in which the insights into the contingent possibility of structure inaugurate a renewed conception of hegemony as bound up with the contingent sites and strategies of the rearticulation of power.
       
      Globalization 
      In recent decades, as capitalism has spread throughout the world via contemporary forms of globalization, cultural studies has generated important analyses of local sites and practices of negotiation with and resistance to Western hegemony.  
      Cultural consumption 
      Cultural Studies criticizes the traditional view of the passive consumer, particularly by underlining the different ways people read, receive and interpret cultural texts, or appropriate other kinds of cultural products, or otherwise participate in the production and circulation of meanings. On this view, a consumer can appropriate, actively rework, or challenge the meanings circulated through cultural texts. In some of its variants, cultural studies has shifted the analytical focus from traditional understandings of production to consumption - viewed as a form of production (of meanings, of identities, etc.) in its own right. Stuart Hall, John Fiske, and others have been influential in these developments. 
      A special 2008 issue of the field's flagship journal, Cultural Studies, examined "anti-consumerism" from a variety of cultural studies angles. Jeremy Gilbert noted in the issue, cultural studies must grapple with the fact that "we now live in an era when, throughout the capitalist world, the overriding aim of government economic policy is to maintain consumer spending levels. This is an era when 'consumer confidence' is treated as the key indicator and cause of economic effectiveness."  
      The concept of "text" 
      Cultural studies, drawing upon and developing semiotics, uses the concept of text to designate not only written language, but also television programs, films, photographs, fashion, hairstyles, and so forth; the texts of cultural studies comprise all the meaningful artifacts of culture. This conception of textuality derives especially from the work of the pioneering and influential semiotician, Roland Barthes, but also owes debts to other sources, such as Juri Lotman and his colleagues from Tartu–Moscow School. Similarly, the field widens the concept of culture. Cultural studies approach the sites and spaces of everyday life, such as pubs, living rooms, gardens, and beaches, as "texts." 
      Culture, in this context, includes not only high culture, but also everyday meanings and practices, a central focus of cultural studies. 
      Jeff Lewis summarized much of the work on textuality and textual analysis in his cultural studies textbook and a post-9/11 monograph on media and terrorism. According to Lewis, textual studies use complex and difficult heuristic methods and require both powerful interpretive skills and a subtle conception of politics and contexts. The task of the cultural analyst, for Lewis, is to engage with both knowledge systems and texts and observe and analyze the ways the two interact with one another. This engagement represents the critical dimensions of the analysis, its capacity to illuminate the hierarchies within and surrounding the given text and its discourse.  
      Academic reception 
      Cultural studies has evolved through the confluence of various disciplines—anthropology, media studies, communication studies, Literary Studies, education, geography, philosophy, sociology, politics, and others. 
      While some have accused certain areas of cultural studies of meandering into political relativism and a kind of empty version of "postmodern" analysis, others hold that at its core, cultural studies provides a significant conceptual and methodological framework for cultural, social, and economic critique. This critique is designed to "deconstruct" the meanings and assumptions that are inscribed in the institutions, texts, and practices that work with and through, and produce and re-present, culture. Thus, while some scholars and disciplines have dismissed cultural studies for its methodological rejection of disciplinarity, its core strategies of critique and analysis have influenced areas of the social sciences and humanities; for example, cultural studies work on forms of social differentiation, control and inequality, identity, community-building, media, and knowledge production has had a substantial impact. Moreover, the influence of cultural studies has become increasingly evident in areas as diverse as translation studies, health studies, international relations, development studies, computer studies, economics, archaeology, and neurobiology. 
      Cultural studies has also diversified its own interests and methodologies, incorporating a range of studies on media policy, democracy, design, leisure, tourism, warfare, and development. While certain key concepts such as ideology or discourse, class, hegemony, identity, and gender remain significant, cultural studies has long engaged with and integrated new concepts and approaches. The field thus continues to pursue political critique through its engagements with the forces of culture and politics. 
      The Blackwell Companion to Cultural Studies, edited by leading cultural studies scholar Toby Miller, contains essays that analyze the development of cultural studies approaches within each of a wide range of disciplines across the contemporary social sciences and humanities.  
      Literary scholars 
      Many cultural studies practitioners work in departments of English or comparative literature. Nevertheless, some traditional literary scholars such as Yale professor Harold Bloom have been outspoken critics of cultural studies. On the level of methodology, these scholars dispute the theoretical underpinning of the movement's critical framework. 
      Bloom stated his position during the 3 September 2000 episode of C-SPAN's Booknotes, while discussing his book How to Read and Why:  
      
      
       here are two enemies of reading now in the world, not just in the English-speaking world. One  the lunatic destruction of literary studies...and its replacement by what is called cultural studies in all of the universities and colleges in the English-speaking world, and everyone knows what that phenomenon is. I mean, the...now-weary phrase 'political correctness' remains a perfectly good descriptive phrase for what has gone on and is, alas, still going on almost everywhere and which dominates, I would say, rather more than three-fifths of the tenured faculties in the English-speaking world, who really do represent treason of the intellectuals, I think, a 'betrayal of the clerks'."
       
      Marxist literary critic Terry Eagleton is not wholly opposed to cultural studies, but has criticised aspects of it and highlighted what he sees as its strengths and weaknesses in books such as After Theory (2003). For Eagleton, literary and cultural theory have the potential to say important things about the "fundamental questions" in life, but theorists have rarely realized this potential. 
      English departments also host cultural rhetorics scholars. This academic field defines cultural rhetorics as "the study and practice of making meaning and knowledge with the belief that all cultures are rhetorical and all rhetorics are cultural." Cultural rhetorics scholars are interested in investigating topics like climate change, autism, Asian American rhetoric, and more.  
      Sociology 
      Cultural studies have also had a substantial impact on sociology. For example, when Stuart Hall left CCCS at Birmingham, it was to accept a prestigious professorship in Sociology at the Open University in Britain. The subfield of cultural sociology, in particular, is disciplinary home to many cultural studies practitioners. Nevertheless, there are some differences between sociology as a discipline and the field of cultural studies as a whole. While sociology was founded upon various historic works purposefully distinguishing the subject from philosophy or psychology, cultural studies have explicitly interrogated and criticized traditional understandings and practices of disciplinarity. Most CS practitioners think it is best that cultural studies neither emulate disciplines nor aspire to disciplinarity for cultural studies. Rather, they promote a kind of radical interdisciplinarity as the basis for cultural studies. 
      One sociologist whose work has had a major influence on cultural studies is Pierre Bourdieu, whose work makes innovative use of statistics and in-depth interviews. However, although Bourdieu's work has been highly influential within cultural studies, and although Bourdieu regarded his work as a form of science, cultural studies has never embraced the idea that it should aspire toward "scientificity," and has marshalled a wide range of theoretical and methodological arguments against the fetishization of "scientificity" as a basis for cultural studies. 
      Two sociologists who have been critical of cultural studies, Chris Rojek and Bryan S. Turner, argue in their article, "Decorative sociology: towards a critique of the cultural turn," that cultural studies, particularly the flavor championed by Stuart Hall, lacks a stable research agenda, and privileges the contemporary reading of texts, thus producing an ahistorical theoretical focus. Many, however, would argue, following Hall, that cultural studies have always sought to avoid the establishment of a fixed research agenda; this follows from its critique of disciplinarity. Moreover, Hall and many others have long argued against the misunderstanding that textual analysis is the sole methodology of cultural studies, and have practiced numerous other approaches, as noted above. Rojek and Turner also level the accusation that there is "a sense of moral superiority about the correctness of the political views articulated" in cultural studies.  
      Physics (Alan Sokal) 
      
      
       Main article: Sokal affair
       
      In 1996, physicist Alan Sokal expressed his opposition to cultural studies by submitting a hoax article to a cultural studies journal, Social Text. The article, which was crafted as a parody of what Sokal referred to as the "fashionable nonsense" of postmodernism, was accepted by the editors of the journal, which did not at the time practice peer review. When the paper appeared in print, Sokal published a second article in a self-described "academic gossip" magazine, Lingua Franca, revealing his hoax on Social Text. Sokal stated that his motivation stemmed from his rejection of contemporary critiques of scientific rationalism:  
      
      
       Politically, I'm angered because most (though not all) of this silliness is emanating from the self-proclaimed Left. We're witnessing here a profound historical volte-face. For most of the past two centuries, the Left has been identified with science and against obscurantism; we have believed that rational thought and the fearless analysis of objective reality (both natural and social) are incisive tools for combating the mystifications promoted by the powerful – not to mention being desirable human ends in their own right. The recent turn of many "progressive" or "leftist" academic humanists and social scientists toward one or another form of epistemic relativism betrays this worthy heritage and undermines the already fragile prospects for progressive social critique. Theorizing about "the social construction of reality" won't help us find an effective treatment for AIDS or devise strategies for preventing global warming. Nor can we combat false ideas in history, sociology, economics and politics if we reject the notions of truth and falsity.
       
      In response to this critique, Jacques Derrida wrote:  
      
      
       In whose interest was it to go for a quick practical joke rather than taking part in the work which, sadly, it replaced?
       
      Founding works 
      Hall and others have identified some core originating texts, or the original "curricula," of the field of cultural studies:  
      
       Richard Hoggart's The Uses of Literacy 
       Raymond Williams' Culture and Society and The Long Revolution 
       E. P. Thompson's The Making of the English Working Class.
       
      See also 
      Fields and theories 
      
       
       
        Apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction 
        Comparative cultural studies 
        Comparative literature 
        Critical theory 
        Cross-cultural studies 
        Cultural analytics 
        Cultural anthropology 
        Cultural assimilation 
        Cultural consensus theory 
        Cultural critic 
        Cultural geography 
        Cultural hegemony 
        Cultural heritage 
        Cultural history 
        Cultural identity theory 
        Cultural imperialism 
        Cultural materialism 
        Cultural practice 
        Cultural psychology 
        Cultural rights 
        Cultureme 
        Culturology 
        Discourse analysis 
        Dystopia 
        Ecocriticism 
        Fan studies 
        Gender studies 
        Heritage studies 
        Literary criticism 
        Literary theory 
        Media culture 
        Media studies 
        Organizational culture 
        Physical cultural studies 
        Popular culture studies 
        Postcolonialism 
        Postcritique 
        Queer theory 
        Semiotics of culture 
        Social criticism 
        Social semiotics 
        Social theory 
        Sociology of culture 
        Translation studies 
        Utopian and dystopian fiction 
        Visual culture
        
       
      Organizations 
      
       
       
        Association for Cultural Typhoon, Japan 
        The Canadian Association for Cultural Studies 
        Cultural Studies Association of Australasia 
        Cultural Studies Association, Taiwan 
        Cultural Studies Association, Turkey 
        Cultural Studies Association, US 
        ECREA – European Communication Research and Education Association, Norway 
        IBACS, Iberian Association of Cultural Studies, Spain 
        Inter-Asia Cultural Studies Society, Taiwan 
        International Center for Cultural Studies, Taiwan 
        International Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies (IATIS), South Korea 
        International Society for Cultural History, UK 
        Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association, UK
        
       
      Authors 
      
       
       
        Fredric Jameson 
        Ackbar Abbas 
        Theodor W. Adorno 
        Giorgio Agamben 
        Sara Ahmed 
        Ien Ang 
        Arjun Appadurai 
        Marc Augé 
        Mikhail Bakhtin 
        Mieke Bal 
        Roland Barthes 
        Jean Baudrillard 
        Zygmunt Bauman 
        Tony Bennett 
        Lauren Berlant 
        Michael Bérubé 
        Homi K. Bhabha 
        Rustom Bharucha 
        Pierre Bourdieu 
        danah boyd 
        Peter Burke 
        Judith Butler 
        Angie Chabram-Dernersesian 
        Rey Chow 
        James Clifford 
        William E. Connolly 
        Tim Cresswell 
        Douglas Crimp 
        Jonathan Culler 
        Antonia Darder 
        Guy Debord 
        Michel de Certeau 
        Gilles Deleuze 
        Jacques Derrida 
        Richard Dyer 
        Michael Eric Dyson 
        Terry Eagleton 
        John Ellis 
        Arturo Escobar 
        Frantz Fanon 
        John Fiske 
        Hal Foster 
        Michel Foucault 
        Sarah Franklin 
        Paulo Freire 
        John Frow 
        Néstor García Canclini 
        J.K. Gibson-Graham 
        Paul Gilroy 
        Henry Giroux 
        Antonio Gramsci 
        Lawrence Grossberg 
        Elizabeth Grosz 
        Felix Guattari 
        Jürgen Habermas 
        Catherine Hall 
        Gary Hall 
        Stuart Hall 
        Donna Haraway 
        Michael Hardt 
        John Hartley 
        Dick Hebdige 
        Bob Hodge 
        Susan Hogan 
        Richard Hoggart 
        bell hooks 
        Max Horkheimer 
        Eva Illouz 
        Mizuko Ito 
        Luce Irigaray 
        Annamarie Jagose 
        Rosi Braidotti 
        Henry Jenkins 
        Douglas Kellner 
        Laura Kipnis 
        Henry Krips 
        Julia Kristeva 
        Ernesto Laclau 
        Scott Lash 
        Gilles Lipovetsky 
        Jean-François Lyotard 
        Herbert Marcuse 
        Hayden White 
        Jésus Martín-Barbero 
        Doreen Massey 
        Alan McKee 
        Angela McRobbie 
        Robert McRuer 
        Kobena Mercer 
        Toby Miller 
        Nicholas Mirzoeff 
        Chandra Talpade Mohanty 
        Chantal Mouffe 
        Meaghan Morris 
        Hamid Naficy 
        Antonio Negri 
        William Nericcio 
        Griselda Pollock 
        Elspeth Probyn 
        Janice Radway 
        Jacques Ranciere 
        Eduardo Restrepo 
        Nelly Richard 
        Andrew Ross 
        Edward Said 
        Beatriz Sarlo 
        Saskia Sassen 
        Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick 
        Richard Sennett 
        Beverley Skeggs 
        Edward Soja 
        Sonjah Stanley Niaah 
        David Harvey 
        Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak 
        Sara Suleri 
        Tiziana Terranova 
        E. P. Thompson 
        Tzvetan Todorov 
        Graeme Turner 
        Valentin Voloshinov 
        Catherine Walsh 
        Michael Warner 
        Cornel West 
        Raymond Williams 
        Paul Willis 
        Slavoj Žižek
        
       
      Journals 
      
       
       
        Angelaki: Journal of the Theoretical Humanities 
        Camera Obscura: Feminism, Culture, and Media Studies 
        Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies 
        Continuum: Journal of Media &amp; Cultural Studies 
        Critical Arts: South-North Cultural and Media Studies 
        Critical Studies in Media Communication 
        Cultura 
        Cultural Critique 
        Cultural Studies 
        Cultural Studies ↔ Critical Methodologies 
        Cultural Studies of Science Education 
        Cultural Studies Review 
        Culture Machine 
        differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies 
        European Journal of Cultural Studies 
        French Cultural Studies 
        Identities: Global Studies in Culture and Power 
        Inter-Asia Cultural Studies 
        International Journal of Cultural Studies 
        Journal for Early Modern Cultural Studies 
        Journal of African Cultural Studies 
        Journal of Intercultural Studies 
        Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies 
        Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies 
        New Formations 
        Open Cultural Studies 
        Parallax 
        Portuguese Cultural Studies 
        Portuguese Literary &amp; Cultural Studies (PLCS) 
        Public Culture 
        Review of Education, Pedagogy and Cultural Studies 
        Social Text 
        Space and Culture 
        Theory, Culture &amp; Society 
        Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Cultural studies" is not synonymous with either "area studies" or "ethnic studies," although there are many cultural studies practitioners working in both area studies and ethnic studies programs and professional associations (e.g. American studies, Asian studies, African-American studies, Latina/o Studies, European studies, Latin American studies, etc.).  
        ^ "cultural studies | interdisciplinary field". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 28 June 2017.  
        ^ Pain, R. and Smith, S. eds., 2008. Fear: Critical geopolitics and everyday life. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd.  
        ^ Bérubé, Michael (2009), "What's the Matter with Cultural Studies?", The Chronicle of Higher Education.  
        ^ "Cultural Studies Associations, Networks and Programs", extensive, but incomplete, list of associations, networks and programs as found on the website for the Association of Cultural Studies, Tampere, Finland.  
        ^ Sardar, Ziauddin, and Borin Van Loon. 1994. Introducing Cultural Studies. New York: Totem Books  
        ^ 
          Turner, Graeme (2003). British Cultural Studies: An Introduction (Third&nbsp;ed.). London: Routledge.  
        ^ 
          Hartley, John (2003). A Short History of Cultural Studies. London: Sage.  
        ^ a b Hall 1980 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFHall1980 (help)  
        ^ a b Dworkin, Dennis. 1997. Cultural Marxism in Post-War Britain: History, the New Left, and the Origins of Cultural Studies. Durham: Duke University Press. p. 116.  
        ^ see also: Corner, John. 1991. "Postscript: Studying Culture—Reflections and Assessment: An Interview with Richard Hoggart." Media, Culture &amp; Society 13(2).  
        ^ 
          "About the Birmingham CCCS - University of Birmingham". www.birmingham.ac.uk. Retrieved 14 June 2017.  
        ^ 
          Davies, Ioan (1991). "British Cultural Marxism". International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society. 4 (3): 323–344. doi:10.1007/BF01386507. S2CID&nbsp;143846218.  
        ^ Hoggart, Richard. 2011. An Idea and Its Servants: UNESCO from Within. Newark, NJ: Transaction Publishers.  
        ^ 
          Morley &amp; Chen (eds.) (1996). Stuart Hall: Critical Dialogues in Cultural Studies. London: Routledge. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Gilroy, Grossberg and McRobbie (eds.) (2000). Without Guarantees: In Honour of Stuart Hall. London: Verso. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Webster, Frank (2004). "Cultural Studies and Sociology at, and After, the Closure of the Birmingham School". Cultural Studies. 18 (6): 848. doi:10.1080/0950238042000306891. S2CID&nbsp;145110580.  
        ^ Curtis, Polly (2002), "Birmingham's cultural studies department given the chop." The Guardian.  
        ^ 
          Storey, John (1996). "What is Cultural Studies?" (PDF).  
        ^ 
          Hall, Critcher, Jefferson, Clarke &amp; Roberts (1978). Policing the Crisis: Mugging, the State, and Law and Order. New York: Holmes &amp; Meier Publishers, Inc.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
        ^ 
          Hall, Stuart (1988). The Hard Road to Renewal: Thatcherism and the Crisis of the Left. London: Verso.  
        ^ 
          Hall &amp; Jacques (eds.) (1991). New Times: The Changing Face of Politics in the 1990s. London: Verso. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Abbas &amp; Erni (eds.) (2005). Internationalizing Cultural Studies: An Anthology. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ Lindlof &amp; Taylor, 2002, p.&nbsp;60.  
        ^ Grossberg, Nelson &amp; Treichler 1992 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFGrossbergNelsonTreichler1992 (help)  
        ^ 
          Warren &amp; Vavrus (eds.) (2002). American Cultural Studies. Urbana Champaign, IL: University of Illinois Press. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Hartley &amp; Pearson (eds.) (2000). American Cultural Studies: A Reader. Oxford University Press. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Frow &amp; Morris (eds.) (1993). Australian Cultural Studies: A Reader. Urbana Champaign, IL: University of Illinois Press. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Turner, Graeme, ed. (1993). Nation, Culture, Text: Australian Cultural and Media Studies. London: Routledge.  
        ^ 
          Tomaselli, K.G.; Ronning, H.; Mboti, N (2013). "South–North perspectives: the development of cultural and media studies in Southern Africa". Media, Culture &amp; Society. 35 (1): 36–43. doi:10.1177/0163443712464556. S2CID&nbsp;145257054.  
        ^ 
          Sarto, Ríos &amp; Trigo (eds.) (2004). The Latin American Cultural Studies Reader. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Irwin &amp; Szurmuck (eds.) (2012). Dictionary of Latin American Cultural Studies. Gainesville: University Press of Florida. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Ahrens, Johannes; Beer, Raphael; Bittlingmayer, Uwe H.; Gerdes, Jürgen (10 February 2011). Normativität: Über die Hintergründe sozialwissenschaftlicher Theoriebildung (in German). Springer-Verlag. ISBN&nbsp;9783531930107.  
        ^ 
          Chen, Kuan-Hsing; Chua, Beng Huat (2007). The Inter-Asia Cultural Studies Reader. London: Routledge.  
        ^ 
          Hall, Stuart (June 1986). "Gramsci's Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity". Journal of Communication Inquiry. 10 (2): 5–27. doi:10.1177/019685998601000202. S2CID&nbsp;53782.  
        ^ Lash 2007, pp.&nbsp;68–69 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFLash2007 (help)  
        ^ Edgar &amp; Sedgewick, 165.  
        ^ 
          Giddens, Anthony (1984). The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration. Malden, MA: Polity Press.  
        ^ 
          Guins &amp; Cruz (eds.) (2005). Popular Culture: A Reader. London: Sage. p.&nbsp;67. }: |last1= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          Grossberg, Lawrence (2010). Cultural Studies in the Future Tense. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.  
        ^ 
          Butler, Judith (1997). "Further Reflections on Conversations of Our Time". Diacritics. 27 (1): 13–15. doi:10.1353/dia.1997.0004. S2CID&nbsp;170598741.  
        ^ 
          Appadurai, Arjun (1996). Modernity at Large: Cultural Dimensions of Globalization. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.  
        ^ 
          Gilbert, Jeremy (2008). "Against the Commodification of Everything". Cultural Studies. 22 (5): 551–566. doi:10.1080/09502380802245811. S2CID&nbsp;142515063.  
        ^ 
          Fiske, Hodge and Turner (1987). Myths of Oz: Reading Australian Popular Culture. Allen &amp; Unwin: Boston.  
        ^ Bakhtin, Mikhail 1981. The Dialogic Imagination. Austin, Texas: University of Texas Press, p. 4.  
        ^ Lewis, Jeff. 2008. Cultural Studies. London: SAGE.  
        ^ Lewis, Jeff. 2005. Language Wars: The Role of Media and Culture in Global Terror and Political Violence. London: Pluto Press.  
        ^ Lewis 2008 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFLewis2008 (help)  
        ^ During 2007 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFDuring2007 (help)  
        ^ Miller 2006, p.&nbsp;index harvnb error: no target: CITEREFMiller2006 (help)  
        ^ 
          "How to Read and Why". C-SPAN. 3 September 2000. Retrieved 19 April 2017.  
        ^ 
          "Cultural Rhetorics Consortium". Retrieved 13 September 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Introduction: Rhetorics and Literacies of Climate Change | enculturation". enculturation.net. Retrieved 13 September 2021.  
        ^ 
          "I Am #ActuallyAutistic, Hear Me Tweet: The Autist-Topoi of Autistic Activists on Twitter | enculturation". enculturation.net. Retrieved 13 September 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Beyond Representation: Spatial, Temporal and Embodied Trans/Formations of Asian/Asian American Rhetoric | enculturation". enculturation.net. Retrieved 13 September 2021.  
        ^ Richard Harker, Cheleen Mahar, Chris Wilkes (eds), An Introduction to the Work of Pierre Bourdieu: The Theory of Practice. Houndmills: Macmillan, 1990, pp. 68-71.  
        ^ 
          Bourdieu, Pierre (1984). Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780674212770.  
        ^ a b Rojek, Chris, and Bryan Turner. 2000. "Decorative sociology: towards a critique of the cultural turn." The Sociological Review 48(4):629–48.  
        ^ Sokal, Alan. 1996. "A Physicist Experiments With Cultural Studies," translated by D. Sleator. NYU Department of Physics.  
        ^ Derrida, Jacques. 2005. "Sokal and Bricmont aren’t serious" In: J. Derrida (Ed.), R. Bowlby (Trans.),Paper Machine. (pp. 70-72). Stanford CA: Stanford University Press (first published 1997 “Sokal et Bricmont ne sont pas sérieux.” in Le Monde: p. 17.).  
        ^ 
          "About". Cultural Studies Association of Australasia. Archived from the original on 29 February 2016. Retrieved 29 September 2015.  
       
       
      Sources 
      
       
        Bitar, Amer (2020). Bedouin Visual Leadership in the Middle East: The Power of Aesthetics and Practical Implications. Springer Nature. ISBN&nbsp;9783030573973. 
       Du Gay, Paul, et al. 1997. Doing Cultural Studies: The Story of the Sony Walkman. Culture, Media and Identities. London: SAGE, in association with Open University. 
       During, Simon. 2007. The Cultural Studies Reader (3rd ed.). London: Routledge. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-37412-5. 
       Edgar, Andrew, and Peter Sedgwick. 2005. Cultural Theory: The Key Concepts (2nd ed.). New York: Routledge. 
       Engel, Manfred. 2008. "Cultural and Literary Studies." Canadian Review of Comparative Literature 31:460–67. 
       Grossberg, Lawrence; Cary Nelson, and Paula A. Treichler, eds. 1992. 
         Cultural Studies. 1992. New York: Routledge. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-415-90351-3. 
       Hall, Stuart, ed. 1980. 
         Culture, Media, Language: Working Papers in Cultural Studies, 1972-1979. 1980. London: Routledge, in association with the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-09-142070-9. 
       —— 1980. "Cultural Studies: Two Paradigms." Media, Culture, and Society 2. 
       —— 1992. "Race, Culture, and Communications: Looking Backward and Forward at Cultural Studies." Rethinking Marxism 5(1):10–18. 
       Hoggart, Richard. 1957. The Uses of Literacy: Aspects of Working Class Life. Chatto and Windus. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-7011-0763-4 
       Johnson, Richard. 1986–87. "What Is Cultural Studies Anyway?" Social Text 16:38–80. 
       —— 2004. "Multiplying Methods: From Pluralism to Combination." Pp.&nbsp;26–43 in Practice of Cultural Studies. London: SAGE. 
       —— "Post-Hegemony? I Don't Think So" Theory, Culture &amp; Society 24(3):95–110. 
       Lash, Scott. 2007. "Power After Hegemony: Cultural Studies in Mutation?." Theory, Culture &amp; Society 24(3):55–78. doi:10.1177/0263276407075956. 
       Lewis, Jeff. 2008. Cultural Studies: The Basics (2nd ed.). London: SAGE. 
        ISBN&nbsp;1-4129-2229-1. 
       Lindlof, T. R., and B. C. Taylor. 2002. Qualitative Communication Research Methods (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE. 
       Longhurst, Brian, Greg Smith, Gaynor Bagnall, Garry Crawford, and Michael Ogborn. 2008. Introducing Cultural Studies (2nd ed.). London: Pearson. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4058-5843-4. 
       Miller, Toby, ed. 2006. A Companion to Cultural Studies. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-631-21788-6. 
       Pollock, Griselda, ed. 1996. Generations and Geographies: Critical Theories and Critical Practices in Feminism and the Visual Arts. Routledge. 
       —— 2006. Psychoanalysis and the Image. Boston: Blackwell. 
       Smith, Paul. 1991. "A Course In 'Cultural Studies'." The Journal of the Midwest Modern Language Association 24(1):39–49. 
       —— 2006. "Looking Backwards and Forwards at Cultural Studies." Pp.&nbsp;331–40 in A Companion to Cultural Studies, edited by T. Miller. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-631-21788-6. 
       Williams, Jeffrey, interviewer. 1994. "Questioning Cultural Studies: An Interview with Paul Smith." Hartford, CT: MLG Institute for Culture and Society, Trinity College. Retrieved 1 July 2020. 
       Williams, Raymond. 1985. Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society (revised ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. 
       —— 1966. Culture and Society, 1780-1950. New York: Harper &amp; Row.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cultural studies.
         
       
       
      
       CCCS publications (Annual Reports and Stencilled Occasional  Papers) of the University of Birmingham 
       "The Need for Cultural Studies: Resisting Intellectuals and Oppositional Public Spheres" 
       CLCWeb: Comparative Literature and Culture at Purdue University
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            British New Left
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             Communist Party Historians Group (Communist Party of Great Britain) 
             Hungarian Revolution of 1956 
             Revisionism 
             Marxist humanism 
             Cultural studies 
             Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies 
             Partisan Coffee House 
             Socialist Society 
             Socialist Movement
             
           
         
         
          Figures
          
            
            
             E. P. Thompson 
             John Saville 
             Stuart Hall 
             Raymond Williams 
             Richard Hoggart 
             Perry Anderson 
             Tom Nairn 
             Peter Worsley 
             Ralph Miliband 
             Raphael Samuel 
             Rodney Hilton 
             Robin Blackburn 
             Tariq Ali 
             Catherine Hall 
             Sheila Rowbotham 
             Dick Hebdige
             
           
         
         
          Organisations
          
            
            
             The Angry Brigade 
             Big Flame 
             British Black Panthers 
             Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament 
             International Marxist Group 
             International Socialists (UK) 
             King Mob
             
           
         
         
          Major influences
          
            
            
             Antonio Gramsci 
             Louis Althusser 
             Frankfurt School 
             Isaac Deutscher 
             Harold Laski 
             C. Wright Mills 
             Talcott Parsons 
             Iris Murdoch
             
           
         
         
          Publications
          
            
            
             New Reasoner 
             Universities and Left Review 
             New Left Review 
             Socialist Register 
             Radical Philosophy 
             Soundings
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Far-left politics in the United Kingdom 
             Anti-Stalinist left 
             Eurocommunism 
             UK underground 
             Counterculture
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Culture
           
         
         
          
           
             Outline
           
         
         
          Sciences
          
            
            
             Cultural anthropology 
             Cultural astronomy 
             Cultural ecology 
             Cultural geography 
             Cultural neuroscience 
             Cultural studies 
             Culturology 
             Culture theory 
             Security culture 
             Neuroculture
             
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Bioculture 
             Cross-cultural studies 
              
               Cross-cultural communication 
               Cross-cultural leadership 
               Cross-cultural psychiatry 
               Cross-cultural psychology
               
             Cultural analytics 
             Cultural economics 
             Cultural entomology 
             Cultural history 
             Cultural mapping 
             Cultural mediation 
             Cultural psychology 
             Cultural values 
             Culturomics 
             Intercultural learning 
             Intercultural relations 
             Internet culture 
             Philosophy of culture 
             Popular culture studies 
             Postcritique 
             Semiotics of culture 
             Sociology of culture 
             Sound culture 
             Theology of culture 
             Transcultural nursing
             
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Constructed culture 
             Dominant culture 
             Folk culture 
             High culture 
             Individualistic culture 
             Legal culture 
             Low culture 
             Microculture 
             Official culture 
             Political culture 
              
               Civic
               
             Popular culture 
              
               Urban
               
             Primitive culture 
             Subculture 
              
               Alternative culture 
               list
               
             Super culture 
             Vernacular culture 
             Culture by location
             
           
         
         
          Aspects
          
            
            
             Acculturation 
             Cultural appreciation 
             Cultural appropriation 
             Cultural area 
             Cultural artifact 
             Cultural baggage 
             Cultural behavior 
             Cultural bias 
             Cultural capital 
              
               Cross-cultural
               
             Cultural communication 
             Cultural conflict 
             Cultural cringe 
             Cultural dissonance 
             Cultural emphasis 
             Cultural framework 
             Cultural heritage 
             Cultural icon 
             Cultural identity 
             Cultural industry 
             Cultural invention 
             Cultural landscape 
             Cultural learning 
             Cultural leveling 
             Cultural memory 
             Cultural pluralism 
             Cultural practice 
             Cultural property 
             Cultural reproduction 
             Cultural system 
             Cultural technology 
             Cultural universal 
             Cultureme 
             Enculturation 
             High- and low-context cultures 
             Interculturality 
             Manuscript culture 
             Material culture 
             Non-material culture 
             Organizational culture 
             Print culture 
             Protoculture 
             Relational mobility 
             Safety culture 
             Technoculture 
             Trans-cultural diffusion 
             Transculturation 
             Visual culture
             
           
         
         
          Politics
          
            
            
             Colonial mentality 
             Consumer capitalism 
             Cross cultural sensitivity 
             Cultural assimilation 
             Cultural attaché 
             Cultural backwardness 
             Cultural Bolshevism 
             Cultural conservatism 
             Cultural contracts 
             Cultural deprivation 
             Cultural diplomacy 
             Cultural environmentalism 
             Cultural exception 
             Cultural feminism 
             Cultural genocide 
             Cultural globalization 
             Cultural hegemony 
             Cultural imperialism 
             Cultural intelligence 
             Cultural liberalism 
             Cultural nationalism 
             Cultural pessimism 
             Cultural policy 
             Cultural racism 
             Cultural radicalism 
             Cultural retention 
             Cultural Revolution 
             Cultural rights 
             Cultural safety 
             Cultural silence 
             Cultural subsidy 
             Cultural Zionism 
             Culture change 
             Culture minister 
             Culture of fear 
             Culture war 
             Deculturalization 
             Dominator culture 
             Interculturalism 
             Monoculturalism 
             Multiculturalism 
              
               Biculturalism
               
             Pluriculturalism 
             Polyculturalism 
             Transculturism
             
           
         
         
          Religions
          
            
            
             Buddhism 
             Christianity 
              
               Catholicism 
               Cultural Christians 
               Protestantism 
               Role of Christianity in civilization 
               Eastern Orthodoxy 
               Mormonism
               
             Cultural Hindus 
             Islam 
              
               Cultural Muslims
               
             Judaism 
             Sikhism
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Animal culture 
             Archaeological culture 
             Bennett scale 
             Cannabis culture 
             Circuit of culture 
             Civilization 
             Coffee culture 
             Cross-cultural 
             Cultural center 
             Cultural competence 
             Cultural critic 
             Cultural determinism 
             Cultural diversity 
             Cultural evolutionism 
             Cultural homogenization 
             Cultural institution 
             Cultural jet lag 
             Cultural lag 
             Cultural literacy 
             Cultural mosaic 
             Cultural movement 
             Cultural mulatto 
             Cultural probe 
             Cultural relativism 
             Culture speculation 
             Cultural tourism 
              
               Pop-culture
               
             Cultural translation 
             Cultural turn 
             Cultural sensibility 
             Culture and menstruation 
             Culture and positive psychology 
             Culture and social cognition 
             Culture gap 
             Culture hero 
             Culture industry 
             Culture shock 
             Culturgen 
             Children's culture 
             Culturalism 
             Cyberculture 
             Death and culture 
             Disability culture 
              
               Deaf culture
               
             Emotions and culture 
             Intercultural communication 
             Intercultural competence 
             Languaculture 
             Living things in culture 
             Media culture 
             Oppositional culture 
             Participatory culture 
             Permission culture 
             Rape culture 
             Remix culture 
             Tea culture 
             Transformation of culture 
             Urban culture 
             Welfare culture 
             Western culture 
             Youth culture
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
              WikiProject 
             Changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cultural_studies&amp;oldid=1070977691"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Cultural studies
       Social sciences
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Harv and Sfn no-target errors
       CS1 errors: generic name
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1 German-language sources (de)
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from July 2013
       Articles needing cleanup from September 2021
       All pages needing cleanup
       Wikipedia list cleanup from September 2021
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2021
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2021
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2020
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from September 2015
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2020
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ქართული
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Português
       Shqip
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       Türkçe
       Winaray
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 07:24&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
