
 
  
   
  Computer data storage - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Computer data storage 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Storage of digital data readable by computers
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Computer memory and data storage types
        
        
          
          
           
            General
           
            
            
             Memory cell 
             Memory coherence 
             Cache coherence 
             Memory hierarchy 
             Memory access pattern 
             Memory map 
             Secondary storage 
             MOS memory 
              
               floating-gate
               
             Continuous availability 
             Areal density (computer storage) 
             Block (data storage) 
             Object storage 
             Direct-attached storage 
             Network-attached storage 
              
               Storage area network 
               Block-level storage
               
             Single-instance storage 
             Data 
             Structured data 
             Unstructured data 
             Big data 
             Metadata 
             Data compression 
             Data corruption 
             Data cleansing 
             Data degradation 
             Data integrity 
             Data security 
             Data validation 
             Data validation and reconciliation 
             Data recovery 
             Storage 
             Data cluster 
             Directory 
             Shared resource 
             File sharing 
             File system 
             Clustered file system 
             Distributed file system 
             Distributed file system for cloud 
             Distributed data store 
             Distributed database 
             Database 
             Data bank 
             Data storage 
             Data store 
             Data deduplication 
             Data structure 
             Data redundancy 
             Replication (computing) 
             Memory refresh 
             Storage record 
             Information repository 
             Knowledge base 
             Computer file 
             Object file 
             File deletion 
             File copying 
             Backup 
             Core dump 
             Hex dump 
             Data communication 
             Information transfer 
             Temporary file 
             Copy protection 
             Digital rights management 
             Volume (computing) 
             Boot sector 
             Master boot record 
             Volume boot record 
             Disk array 
             Disk image 
             Disk mirroring 
             Disk aggregation 
             Disk partitioning 
             Memory segmentation 
             Locality of reference 
             Logical disk 
             Storage virtualization 
             Virtual memory 
             Memory-mapped file 
             Software entropy 
             Software rot 
             In-memory database 
             In-memory processing 
             Persistence (computer science) 
             Persistent data structure 
             RAID 
             Non-RAID drive architectures 
             Memory paging 
             Bank switching 
             Grid computing 
             Cloud computing 
             Cloud storage 
             Fog computing 
             Edge computing 
             Dew computing 
             Amdahl's law 
             Moore's law 
             Kryder's law
            
           
           
        
        
          Volatile
        
        
          
          
           
            RAM
           
            
            
             Hardware cache 
              
               CPU cache 
               Scratchpad memory
               
             DRAM 
              
               eDRAM 
               SDRAM 
               SGRAM 
               LPDDR 
               QDRSRAM 
               EDO DRAM 
               XDR DRAM 
               RDRAM 
               SDRAM 
               DDR 
               GDDR 
               HBM
               
             SRAM 
              
               1T-SRAM
               
             ReRAM 
             QRAM 
             Content-addressable memory (CAM) 
             VRAM 
             Dual-ported RAM 
              
               Video RAM (dual-ported DRAM)
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Historical
           
            
            
             Williams–Kilburn tube (1946–1947) 
             Delay-line memory (1947) 
             Mellon optical memory (1951) 
             Selectron tube (1952) 
             Dekatron 
             T-RAM (2009) 
             Z-RAM (2002–2010)
            
           
           
        
        
          Non-volatile
        
        
          
          
           
            ROM
           
            
            
             MROM 
             PROM 
              
               EPROM 
               EEPROM
               
             ROM cartridge 
             Solid-state storage (SSS) 
              
               Flash memory is used in: 
               Solid-state drive (SSD) 
               Solid-state hybrid drive (SSHD) 
               USB flash drive 
               IBM FlashSystem 
               Flash Core Module
               
             Memory card 
              
               Memory Stick 
               CompactFlash 
               PC Card 
               MultiMediaCard 
               SD card 
               SIM card 
               SmartMedia 
               Universal Flash Storage 
               SxS 
               MicroP2 
               XQD card
               
             Programmable metallization cell
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            NVRAM
           
            
            
             Memistor 
             Memristor 
             PCM (3D XPoint) 
             MRAM 
             Electrochemical RAM (ECRAM) 
             Nano-RAM 
             CBRAM
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Early stage NVRAM
           
            
            
             FeRAM 
             ReRAM 
             FeFET memory
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Analog recording
           
            
            
             Phonograph cylinder 
             Phonograph record 
             Quadruplex videotape 
             Vision Electronic Recording Apparatus 
             Magnetic recording 
              
               Magnetic storage 
               Magnetic tape 
               Magnetic tape data storage 
               Tape drive 
               Tape library 
               Digital Data Storage (DDS) 
               Videotape 
               Videocassette 
               Cassette tape 
               Linear Tape-Open 
               Betamax 
               8 mm video format 
               DV 
               MiniDV 
               MicroMV 
               U-matic 
               VHS 
               S-VHS 
               VHS-C 
               D-VHS
               
             Hard disk drive
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Optical
           
            
            
             3D optical data storage 
              
               Optical disc 
               LaserDisc 
               Compact Disc Digital Audio (CDDA) 
               CD 
               CD Video 
               CD-R 
               CD-RW 
               Video CD 
               Super Video CD 
               Mini CD 
               Nintendo optical discs 
               CD-ROM 
               Hyper CD-ROM 
               DVD 
               DVD+R 
               DVD-Video 
               DVD card 
               DVD-RAM 
               MiniDVD 
               HD DVD 
               Blu-ray 
               Ultra HD Blu-ray 
               Holographic Versatile Disc
               
             WORM
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            In development
           
            
            
             CBRAM 
             Racetrack memory 
             NRAM 
             Millipede memory 
             ECRAM 
             Patterned media 
             Holographic data storage 
              
               Electronic quantum holography
               
             5D optical data storage 
             DNA digital data storage 
             Universal memory 
             Time crystal 
             Quantum memory
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Historical
           
            
            
             Paper data storage (1725) 
             Punched card (1725) 
             Punched tape (1725) 
             Plugboard 
             Delay-line memory 
             Drum memory (1932) 
             Magnetic-core memory (1949) 
             Plated wire memory (1957) 
             Core rope memory (1960s) 
             Thin-film memory (1962) 
             Disk pack (1962) 
             Twistor memory (~1968) 
             Bubble memory (~1970) 
             Floppy disk (1971)
            
           
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       This article is about data storage on computers in particular. For all forms of data storage, see data storage.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         1&nbsp;GiB of SDRAM mounted in a computer. An example of primary storage.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         15&nbsp;GB PATA hard disk drive (HDD) from 1999. When connected to a computer it serves as secondary storage.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         160&nbsp;GB SDLT tape cartridge, an example of off-line storage. When used within a robotic tape library, it is classified as tertiary storage instead.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Read/Write DVD drive with cradle for media extended
        
       
       
      Computer data storage is a technology consisting of computer components and recording media that are used to retain digital data. It is a core function and fundamental component of computers.: 15–16  
      The central processing unit (CPU) of a computer is what manipulates data by performing computations. In practice, almost all computers use a storage hierarchy,: 468–473  which puts fast but expensive and small storage options close to the CPU and slower but less expensive and larger options further away. Generally the fast volatile technologies (which lose data when off power) are referred to as "memory", while slower persistent technologies are referred to as "storage". 
      Even the first computer designs, Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine and Percy Ludgate's Analytical Machine, clearly distinguished between processing and memory (Babbage stored numbers as rotations of gears, while Ludgate stored numbers as displacements of rods in shuttles). This distinction was extended in the Von Neumann architecture, where the CPU consists of two main parts: The control unit and the arithmetic logic unit (ALU). The former controls the flow of data between the CPU and memory, while the latter performs arithmetic and logical operations on data.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Functionality 
        2 Data organization and representation 
        3 Hierarchy of storage 
          
          3.1 Primary storage 
          3.2 Secondary storage 
          3.3 Tertiary storage 
          3.4 Off-line storage 
           
        4 Characteristics of storage 
          
          4.1 Volatility 
          4.2 Mutability 
          4.3 Accessibility 
          4.4 Addressability 
          4.5 Capacity 
          4.6 Performance 
          4.7 Energy use 
          4.8 Security 
          4.9 Vulnerability and reliability 
            
            4.9.1 Error detection 
             
           
        5 Storage media 
          
          5.1 Semiconductor 
          5.2 Magnetic 
          5.3 Optical 
          5.4 Paper 
          5.5 Other storage media or substrates 
           
        6 Related technologies 
          
          6.1 Redundancy 
          6.2 Network connectivity 
          6.3 Robotic storage 
           
        7 See also 
          
          7.1 Primary storage topics 
          7.2 Secondary, tertiary and off-line storage topics 
          7.3 Data storage conferences 
           
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        
       
      Functionality 
      Without a significant amount of memory, a computer would merely be able to perform fixed operations and immediately output the result. It would have to be reconfigured to change its behavior. This is acceptable for devices such as desk calculators, digital signal processors, and other specialized devices. Von Neumann machines differ in having a memory in which they store their operating instructions and data.: 20  Such computers are more versatile in that they do not need to have their hardware reconfigured for each new program, but can simply be reprogrammed with new in-memory instructions; they also tend to be simpler to design, in that a relatively simple processor may keep state between successive computations to build up complex procedural results. Most modern computers are von Neumann machines.  
      Data organization and representation 
      A modern digital computer represents data using the binary numeral system. Text, numbers, pictures, audio, and nearly any other form of information can be converted into a string of bits, or binary digits, each of which has a value of 0&nbsp;or&nbsp;1. The most common unit of storage is the byte, equal to 8 bits. A piece of information can be handled by any computer or device whose storage space is large enough to accommodate the binary representation of the piece of information, or simply data. For example, the complete works of Shakespeare, about 1250&nbsp;pages in print, can be stored in about five megabytes (40&nbsp;million bits) with one byte per character. 
      Data are encoded by assigning a bit pattern to each character, digit, or multimedia object. Many standards exist for encoding (e.g. character encodings like ASCII, image encodings like JPEG, video encodings like MPEG-4). 
      By adding bits to each encoded unit, redundancy allows the computer to both detect errors in coded data and correct them based on mathematical algorithms. Errors generally occur in low probabilities due to random bit value flipping, or "physical bit fatigue", loss of the physical bit in storage of its ability to maintain a distinguishable value (0&nbsp;or&nbsp;1), or due to errors in inter or intra-computer communication. A random bit flip (e.g. due to random radiation) is typically corrected upon detection. A bit, or a group of malfunctioning physical bits (not always the specific defective bit is known; group definition depends on specific storage device) is typically automatically fenced-out, taken out of use by the device, and replaced with another functioning equivalent group in the device, where the corrected bit values are restored (if possible). The cyclic redundancy check (CRC) method is typically used in communications and storage for error detection. A detected error is then retried. 
      Data compression methods allow in many cases (such as a database) to represent a string of bits by a shorter bit string ("compress") and reconstruct the original string ("decompress") when needed. This utilizes substantially less storage (tens of percents) for many types of data at the cost of more computation (compress and decompress when needed). Analysis of trade-off between storage cost saving and costs of related computations and possible delays in data availability is done before deciding whether to keep certain data compressed or not. 
      For security reasons, certain types of data (e.g. credit-card information) may be kept encrypted in storage to prevent the possibility of unauthorized information reconstruction from chunks of storage snapshots.  
      Hierarchy of storage 
      
      
       Main article: Memory hierarchy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Various forms of storage, divided according to their distance from the central processing unit. The fundamental components of a general-purpose computer are arithmetic and logic unit, control circuitry, storage space, and input/output devices. Technology and capacity as in common home computers around 2005.
        
       
       
      Generally, the lower a storage is in the hierarchy, the lesser its bandwidth and the greater its access latency is from the CPU. This traditional division of storage to primary, secondary, tertiary, and off-line storage is also guided by cost per bit. 
      In contemporary usage, memory is usually semiconductor storage read-write random-access memory, typically DRAM (dynamic RAM) or other forms of fast but temporary storage. Storage consists of storage devices and their media not directly accessible by the CPU (secondary or tertiary storage), typically hard disk drives, optical disc drives, and other devices slower than RAM but non-volatile (retaining contents when powered down). 
      Historically, memory has been called core memory, main memory, real storage, or internal memory. Meanwhile, non-volatile storage devices have been referred to as secondary storage, external memory, or auxiliary/peripheral storage.  
      Primary storage 
      
      
       Main article: Computer memory
       
      Primary storage (also known as main memory, internal memory, or prime memory), often referred to simply as memory, is the only one directly accessible to the CPU. The CPU continuously reads instructions stored there and executes them as required. Any data actively operated on is also stored there in uniform manner. 
      Historically, early computers used delay lines, Williams tubes, or rotating magnetic drums as primary storage. By 1954, those unreliable methods were mostly replaced by magnetic-core memory. Core memory remained dominant until the 1970s, when advances in integrated circuit technology allowed semiconductor memory to become economically competitive. 
      This led to modern random-access memory (RAM). It is small-sized, light, but quite expensive at the same time. The particular types of RAM used for primary storage are volatile, meaning that they lose the information when not powered. Besides storing opened programs, it serves as disk cache and write buffer to improve both reading and writing performance. Operating systems borrow RAM capacity for caching so long as not needed by running software. Spare memory can be utilized as RAM drive for temporary high-speed data storage. 
      As shown in the diagram, traditionally there are two more sub-layers of the primary storage, besides main large-capacity RAM:  
      
       Processor registers are located inside the processor. Each register typically holds a word of data (often 32 or 64&nbsp;bits). CPU instructions instruct the arithmetic logic unit to perform various calculations or other operations on this data (or with the help of it). Registers are the fastest of all forms of computer data storage. 
       Processor cache is an intermediate stage between ultra-fast registers and much slower main memory. It was introduced solely to improve the performance of computers. Most actively used information in the main memory is just duplicated in the cache memory, which is faster, but of much lesser capacity. On the other hand, main memory is much slower, but has a much greater storage capacity than processor registers. Multi-level hierarchical cache setup is also commonly used—primary cache being smallest, fastest and located inside the processor; secondary cache being somewhat larger and slower.
       
      Main memory is directly or indirectly connected to the central processing unit via a memory bus. It is actually two buses (not on the diagram): an address bus and a data bus. The CPU firstly sends a number through an address bus, a number called memory address, that indicates the desired location of data. Then it reads or writes the data in the memory cells using the data bus. Additionally, a memory management unit (MMU) is a small device between CPU and RAM recalculating the actual memory address, for example to provide an abstraction of virtual memory or other tasks. 
      As the RAM types used for primary storage are volatile (uninitialized at start up), a computer containing only such storage would not have a source to read instructions from, in order to start the computer. Hence, non-volatile primary storage containing a small startup program (BIOS) is used to bootstrap the computer, that is, to read a larger program from non-volatile secondary storage to RAM and start to execute it. A non-volatile technology used for this purpose is called ROM, for read-only memory (the terminology may be somewhat confusing as most ROM types are also capable of random access). 
      Many types of "ROM" are not literally read only, as updates to them are possible; however it is slow and memory must be erased in large portions before it can be re-written. Some embedded systems run programs directly from ROM (or similar), because such programs are rarely changed. Standard computers do not store non-rudimentary programs in ROM, and rather, use large capacities of secondary storage, which is non-volatile as well, and not as costly. 
      Recently, primary storage and secondary storage in some uses refer to what was historically called, respectively, secondary storage and tertiary storage.  
      Secondary storage 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A hard disk drive (HDD) with protective cover removed
        
       
       
      Secondary storage (also known as external memory or auxiliary storage) differs from primary storage in that it is not directly accessible by the CPU. The computer usually uses its input/output channels to access secondary storage and transfer the desired data to primary storage. Secondary storage is non-volatile (retaining data when its power is shut off). Modern computer systems typically have two orders of magnitude more secondary storage than primary storage because secondary storage is less expensive. 
      In modern computers, hard disk drives (HDDs) or solid-state drives (SSDs) are usually used as secondary storage. The access time per byte for HDDs or SSDs is typically measured in milliseconds (one thousandth seconds), while the access time per byte for primary storage is measured in nanoseconds (one billionth seconds). Thus, secondary storage is significantly slower than primary storage. Rotating optical storage devices, such as CD and DVD drives, have even longer access times. Other examples of secondary storage technologies include USB flash drives, floppy disks, magnetic tape, paper tape, punched cards, and RAM disks. 
      Once the disk read/write head on HDDs reaches the proper placement and the data, subsequent data on the track are very fast to access. To reduce the seek time and rotational latency, data are transferred to and from disks in large contiguous blocks. Sequential or block access on disks is orders of magnitude faster than random access, and many sophisticated paradigms have been developed to design efficient algorithms based upon sequential and block access. Another way to reduce the I/O bottleneck is to use multiple disks in parallel in order to increase the bandwidth between primary and secondary memory. 
      Secondary storage is often formatted according to a file system format, which provides the abstraction necessary to organize data into files and directories, while also providing metadata describing the owner of a certain file, the access time, the access permissions, and other information. 
      Most computer operating systems use the concept of virtual memory, allowing utilization of more primary storage capacity than is physically available in the system. As the primary memory fills up, the system moves the least-used chunks (pages) to a swap file or page file on secondary storage, retrieving them later when needed. If a lot of pages are moved to slower secondary storage, the system performance is degraded.  
      Tertiary storage 
      
      
       See also: Nearline storage and Cloud storage
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A large tape library, with tape cartridges placed on shelves in the front, and a robotic arm moving in the back. The visible height of the library is about 180&nbsp;cm.
        
       
       
      Tertiary storage or tertiary memory is a level below secondary storage. Typically, it involves a robotic mechanism which will mount (insert) and dismount removable mass storage media into a storage device according to the system's demands; such data are often copied to secondary storage before use. It is primarily used for archiving rarely accessed information since it is much slower than secondary storage (e.g. 5–60 seconds vs. 1–10 milliseconds). This is primarily useful for extraordinarily large data stores, accessed without human operators. Typical examples include tape libraries and optical jukeboxes. 
      When a computer needs to read information from the tertiary storage, it will first consult a catalog database to determine which tape or disc contains the information. Next, the computer will instruct a robotic arm to fetch the medium and place it in a drive. When the computer has finished reading the information, the robotic arm will return the medium to its place in the library. 
      Tertiary storage is also known as nearline storage because it is "near to online". The formal distinction between online, nearline, and offline storage is:  
      
       Online storage is immediately available for I/O. 
       Nearline storage is not immediately available, but can be made online quickly without human intervention. 
       Offline storage is not immediately available, and requires some human intervention to become online.
       
      For example, always-on spinning hard disk drives are online storage, while spinning drives that spin down automatically, such as in massive arrays of idle disks (MAID), are nearline storage. Removable media such as tape cartridges that can be automatically loaded, as in tape libraries, are nearline storage, while tape cartridges that must be manually loaded are offline storage.  
      Off-line storage 
      Off-line storage is a computer data storage on a medium or a device that is not under the control of a processing unit. The medium is recorded, usually in a secondary or tertiary storage device, and then physically removed or disconnected. It must be inserted or connected by a human operator before a computer can access it again. Unlike tertiary storage, it cannot be accessed without human interaction. 
      Off-line storage is used to transfer information, since the detached medium can easily be physically transported. Additionally, it is useful for cases of disaster, where, for example, a fire destroys the original data, a medium in a remote location will be unaffected, enabling disaster recovery. Off-line storage increases general information security, since it is physically inaccessible from a computer, and data confidentiality or integrity cannot be affected by computer-based attack techniques. Also, if the information stored for archival purposes is rarely accessed, off-line storage is less expensive than tertiary storage. 
      In modern personal computers, most secondary and tertiary storage media are also used for off-line storage. Optical discs and flash memory devices are most popular, and to much lesser extent removable hard disk drives. In enterprise uses, magnetic tape is predominant. Older examples are floppy disks, Zip disks, or punched cards.  
      Characteristics of storage 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A 1&nbsp;GiB module of laptop DDR2 RAM
        
       
       
      Storage technologies at all levels of the storage hierarchy can be differentiated by evaluating certain core characteristics as well as measuring characteristics specific to a particular implementation. These core characteristics are volatility, mutability, accessibility, and addressability. For any particular implementation of any storage technology, the characteristics worth measuring are capacity and performance.  
       
       
        Overview 
        
       
         
         Characteristic  
         Hard disk drive  
         Optical disc  
         Flash memory  
         Random access memory  
         Linear tape-open 
         
         
         Technology  
         Magnetic disk  
         Laser beam  
         Semiconductor  
         Magnetic tape 
         
         
         Volatility  
         No  
         No  
         No  
         Volatile  
         No 
         
         
         Random access  
         Yes  
         Yes  
         Yes  
         Yes  
         No 
         
         
         Latency (access time)  
         ~15 ms (swift)  
         ~150 ms (moderate)  
         None (instant)  
         None (instant)  
         Lack of random access (very slow) 
         
         
         Controller  
         Internal  
         External  
         Internal  
         Internal  
         External 
         
         
         Failure with imminent data loss  
         Head crash  
         —  
         Circuitry  
         — 
         
         
         Error detection  
         Diagnostic (S.M.A.R.T.)  
         Error rate measurement  
         Indicated by downspiking transfer rates  
         (Short-term storage)  
         Unknown 
         
         
         Price per space  
         Low  
         Low  
         High  
         Very high  
         Very low (but expensive drives) 
         
         
         Price per unit  
         Moderate  
         Low  
         Moderate  
         High  
         Moderate (but expensive drives) 
         
         
         Main application  
         Mid-term archival, server, workstation storage expansion  
         Long-term archival, hard copy distribution  
         Portable electronics; operating system  
         Real-time  
         Long-term archival 
         
       
       
      Volatility 
      Non-volatile memory retains the stored information even if not constantly supplied with electric power. It is suitable for long-term storage of information. Volatile memory requires constant power to maintain the stored information. The fastest memory technologies are volatile ones, although that is not a universal rule. Since the primary storage is required to be very fast, it predominantly uses volatile memory. 
      Dynamic random-access memory is a form of volatile memory that also requires the stored information to be periodically reread and rewritten, or refreshed, otherwise it would vanish. Static random-access memory is a form of volatile memory similar to DRAM with the exception that it never needs to be refreshed as long as power is applied; it loses its content when the power supply is lost. 
      An uninterruptible power supply (UPS) can be used to give a computer a brief window of time to move information from primary volatile storage into non-volatile storage before the batteries are exhausted. Some systems, for example EMC Symmetrix, have integrated batteries that maintain volatile storage for several minutes.  
      Mutability 
      
       
        Read/write storage or mutable storage
        
       
        Allows information to be overwritten at any time. A computer without some amount of read/write storage for primary storage purposes would be useless for many tasks. Modern computers typically use read/write storage also for secondary storage.
        
       
        Slow write, fast read storage
        
       
        Read/write storage which allows information to be overwritten multiple times, but with the write operation being much slower than the read operation. Examples include CD-RW and SSD.
        
       
        Write once storage
        
       
        Write once read many (WORM) allows the information to be written only once at some point after manufacture. Examples include semiconductor programmable read-only memory and CD-R.
        
       
        Read only storage
        
       
        Retains the information stored at the time of manufacture. Examples include mask ROM ICs and CD-ROM.
       
       
      Accessibility 
      
       
        Random access
        
       
        Any location in storage can be accessed at any moment in approximately the same amount of time. Such characteristic is well suited for primary and secondary storage. Most semiconductor memories and disk drives provide random access, though only flash memory supports random access without latency, as no mechanical parts need to be moved.
        
       
        Sequential access
        
       
        The accessing of pieces of information will be in a serial order, one after the other; therefore the time to access a particular piece of information depends upon which piece of information was last accessed. Such characteristic is typical of off-line storage.
       
       
      Addressability 
      
       
        Location-addressable
        
       
        Each individually accessible unit of information in storage is selected with its numerical memory address. In modern computers, location-addressable storage usually limits to primary storage, accessed internally by computer programs, since location-addressability is very efficient, but burdensome for humans.
        
       
        File addressable
        
       
        Information is divided into files of variable length, and a particular file is selected with human-readable directory and file names. The underlying device is still location-addressable, but the operating system of a computer provides the file system abstraction to make the operation more understandable. In modern computers, secondary, tertiary and off-line storage use file systems.
        
       
        Content-addressable
        
       
        Each individually accessible unit of information is selected based on the basis of (part of) the contents stored there. Content-addressable storage can be implemented using software (computer program) or hardware (computer device), with hardware being faster but more expensive option. Hardware content addressable memory is often used in a computer's CPU cache.
       
       
      Capacity 
      
       
        Raw capacity
        
       
        The total amount of stored information that a storage device or medium can hold. It is expressed as a quantity of bits or bytes (e.g. 10.4 megabytes).
        
       
        Memory storage density
        
       
        The compactness of stored information. It is the storage capacity of a medium divided with a unit of length, area or volume (e.g. 1.2 megabytes per square inch).
       
       
      Performance 
      
       
        Latency
        
       
        The time it takes to access a particular location in storage. The relevant unit of measurement is typically nanosecond for primary storage, millisecond for secondary storage, and second for tertiary storage. It may make sense to separate read latency and write latency (especially for non-volatile memory) and in case of sequential access storage, minimum, maximum and average latency.
        
       
        Throughput
        
       
        The rate at which information can be read from or written to the storage. In computer data storage, throughput is usually expressed in terms of megabytes per second (MB/s), though bit rate may also be used. As with latency, read rate and write rate may need to be differentiated. Also accessing media sequentially, as opposed to randomly, typically yields maximum throughput.
        
       
        Granularity
        
       
        The size of the largest "chunk" of data that can be efficiently accessed as a single unit, e.g. without introducing additional latency.
        
       
        Reliability
        
       
        The probability of spontaneous bit value change under various conditions, or overall failure rate.
       
       
      Utilities such as hdparm and sar can be used to measure IO performance in Linux.  
      Energy use 
      
       Storage devices that reduce fan usage automatically shut-down during inactivity, and low power hard drives can reduce energy consumption by 90 percent. 
       2.5-inch hard disk drives often consume less power than larger ones. Low capacity solid-state drives have no moving parts and consume less power than hard disks. Also, memory may use more power than hard disks. Large caches, which are used to avoid hitting the memory wall, may also consume a large amount of power.
       
      Security 
      Full disk encryption, volume and virtual disk encryption, andor file/folder encryption is readily available for most storage devices. 
      Hardware memory encryption is available in Intel Architecture, supporting Total Memory Encryption (TME) and page granular memory encryption with multiple keys (MKTME). and in SPARC M7 generation since October 2015.  
      Vulnerability and reliability 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         S.M.A.R.T. software warning suggests impending hard drive failure
        
       
       
      Distinct types of data storage have different points of failure and various methods of predictive failure analysis. 
      Vulnerabilities that can instantly lead to total loss are head crashing on mechanical hard drives and failure of electronic components on flash storage.  
      Error detection 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Error rate measurement on a DVD+R. The minor errors are correctable and within a healthy range.
        
       
       
      Impending failure on hard disk drives is estimable using S.M.A.R.T. diagnostic data that includes the hours of operation and the count of spin-ups, though its reliability is disputed. 
      Flash storage may experience downspiking transfer rates as a result of accumulating errors, which the flash memory controller attempts to correct. 
      The health of optical media can be determined by measuring correctable minor errors, of which high counts signify deteriorating and/or low-quality media. Too many consecutive minor errors can lead to data corruption. Not all vendors and models of optical drives support error scanning.  
      Storage media 
      As of 2011, the most commonly used data storage media are semiconductor, magnetic, and optical, while paper still sees some limited usage. Some other fundamental storage technologies, such as all-flash arrays (AFAs) are proposed for development.  
      Semiconductor 
      
      
       Main article: Semiconductor memory
       
      Semiconductor memory uses semiconductor-based integrated circuit (IC) chips to store information. Data are typically stored in metal–oxide–semiconductor (MOS) memory cells. A semiconductor memory chip may contain millions of memory cells, consisting of tiny MOS field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) and/or MOS capacitors. Both volatile and non-volatile forms of semiconductor memory exist, the former using standard MOSFETs and the latter using floating-gate MOSFETs. 
      In modern computers, primary storage almost exclusively consists of dynamic volatile semiconductor random-access memory (RAM), particularly dynamic random-access memory (DRAM). Since the turn of the century, a type of non-volatile floating-gate semiconductor memory known as flash memory has steadily gained share as off-line storage for home computers. Non-volatile semiconductor memory is also used for secondary storage in various advanced electronic devices and specialized computers that are designed for them. 
      As early as 2006, notebook and desktop computer manufacturers started using flash-based solid-state drives (SSDs) as default configuration options for the secondary storage either in addition to or instead of the more traditional HDD.  
      Magnetic 
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Magnetic storage media
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Wire (1898) 
             Tape (1928) 
             Drum (1932) 
             Ferrite core (1949) 
             Hard disk (1956) 
             Stripe card (1956) 
             MICR (1956) 
             Thin film (1962) 
             CRAM (1962) 
             Twistor (~1968) 
             Floppy disk (1969) 
             Bubble (~1970) 
             MRAM (1995) 
             Racetrack (2008)
             
           
         
        
       
       
      Magnetic storage uses different patterns of magnetization on a magnetically coated surface to store information. Magnetic storage is non-volatile. The information is accessed using one or more read/write heads which may contain one or more recording transducers. A read/write head only covers a part of the surface so that the head or medium or both must be moved relative to another in order to access data. In modern computers, magnetic storage will take these forms:  
      
       Magnetic disk; 
        
         Floppy disk, used for off-line storage; 
         Hard disk drive, used for secondary storage.
         
       Magnetic tape, used for tertiary and off-line storage; 
       Carousel memory (magnetic rolls).
       
      In early computers, magnetic storage was also used as:  
      
       Primary storage in a form of magnetic memory, or core memory, core rope memory, thin-film memory and/or twistor memory; 
       Tertiary (e.g. NCR CRAM) or off line storage in the form of magnetic cards; 
       Magnetic tape was then often used for secondary storage.
       
      Magnetic storage does not have a definite limit of rewriting cycles like flash storage and re-writeable optical media, as altering magnetic fields causes no physical wear. Rather, their life span is limited by mechanical parts.  
      Optical 
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Optical storage media
           
         
         
          Blu-ray (2006)
          
            
            
             BD-R (2006) 
             BD-RE (2006) 
             BD-R XL (2010) 
             BD-RE XL (2010)
             
           
         
         
          Professional Disc (2003)
          
            
            
             PDD (2004)
             
           
         
         
          DVD (1995)
          
            
            
             DVD-R (1997) 
             DVD-RW (1999) 
             DVD+RW (2001) 
             DVD+R (2002) 
             DVD+R DL (2004) 
             DVD-R DL (2005)
             
           
         
         
          Compact disc (1982)
          
            
            
             CD-R (1988) 
             CD-i (1991) 
             CD-RW (1997)
             
           
         
         
          Discontinued
          
            
            
             Microform (1870) 
             Optical tape (20th century) 
             Optical disc (20th century) 
             LaserDisc (1978) 
             WORM (1979) 
             GD-ROM (1997) 
             MIL-CD (1999) 
             DataPlay (2002) 
             UDO (2003) 
             ProData (2003) 
             UMD (2004) 
             HD DVD (2006)
             
           
         
         
          Magneto-optic Kerr effect (1877)
          
            
            
             MO disc (1980s) 
             MiniDisc (1992) 
             MD Data (1993) 
             Hi-MD (2004)
             
           
         
         
          Optical Assist
          
            
            
             Laser turntable (1986) 
             Floptical (1991) 
             Super DLT (1998)
             
           
         
        
       
       
      Optical storage, the typical optical disc, stores information in deformities on the surface of a circular disc and reads this information by illuminating the surface with a laser diode and observing the reflection. Optical disc storage is non-volatile. The deformities may be permanent (read only media), formed once (write once media) or reversible (recordable or read/write media). The following forms are currently in common use:  
      
       CD, CD-ROM, DVD, BD-ROM: Read only storage, used for mass distribution of digital information (music, video, computer programs); 
       CD-R, DVD-R, DVD+R, BD-R: Write once storage, used for tertiary and off-line storage; 
       CD-RW, DVD-RW, DVD+RW, DVD-RAM, BD-RE: Slow write, fast read storage, used for tertiary and off-line storage; 
       Ultra Density Optical or UDO is similar in capacity to BD-R or BD-RE and is slow write, fast read storage used for tertiary and off-line storage.
       
      Magneto-optical disc storage is optical disc storage where the magnetic state on a ferromagnetic surface stores information. The information is read optically and written by combining magnetic and optical methods. Magneto-optical disc storage is non-volatile, sequential access, slow write, fast read storage used for tertiary and off-line storage. 
      3D optical data storage has also been proposed. 
      Light induced magnetization melting in magnetic photoconductors has also been proposed for high-speed low-energy consumption magneto-optical storage.  
      Paper 
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Paper data storage media
           
         
         
          Antiquity
          
            
            
             Writing on papyrus (c. 3000 BCE) 
             Paper (105 CE)
             
           
         
         
          Modern
          
            
            
             Index card (1640s) 
             Punched tape (mid-1800s) 
             Punched card (1880s) 
             Edge-notched card (1904) 
             Optical mark recognition (1930s) 
             Barcode (1948)
             
           
         
        
       
       
      Paper data storage, typically in the form of paper tape or punched cards, has long been used to store information for automatic processing, particularly before general-purpose computers existed. Information was recorded by punching holes into the paper or cardboard medium and was read mechanically (or later optically) to determine whether a particular location on the medium was solid or contained a hole. Barcodes make it possible for objects that are sold or transported to have some computer-readable information securely attached. 
      Relatively small amounts of digital data (compared to other digital data storage) may be backed up on paper as a matrix barcode for very long-term storage, as the longevity of paper typically exceeds even magnetic data storage.  
      Other storage media or substrates 
      
       
        Vacuum-tube memory
        
       
        A Williams tube used a cathode-ray tube, and a Selectron tube used a large vacuum tube to store information. These primary storage devices were short-lived in the market, since the Williams tube was unreliable, and the Selectron tube was expensive.
       
       
      
       
        Electro-acoustic memory
        
       
        Delay-line memory used sound waves in a substance such as mercury to store information. Delay-line memory was dynamic volatile, cycle sequential read/write storage, and was used for primary storage.
       
       
      
       
        Optical tape
        
       
        is a medium for optical storage, generally consisting of a long and narrow strip of plastic, onto which patterns can be written and from which the patterns can be read back. It shares some technologies with cinema film stock and optical discs, but is compatible with neither. The motivation behind developing this technology was the possibility of far greater storage capacities than either magnetic tape or optical discs.
       
       
      
       
        Phase-change memory
        
       
        uses different mechanical phases of phase-change material to store information in an X–Y addressable matrix and reads the information by observing the varying electrical resistance of the material. Phase-change memory would be non-volatile, random-access read/write storage, and might be used for primary, secondary and off-line storage. Most rewritable and many write-once optical disks already use phase-change material to store information.
       
       
      
       
        Holographic data storage
        
       
        stores information optically inside crystals or photopolymers. Holographic storage can utilize the whole volume of the storage medium, unlike optical disc storage, which is limited to a small number of surface layers. Holographic storage would be non-volatile, sequential-access, and either write-once or read/write storage. It might be used for secondary and off-line storage. See Holographic Versatile Disc (HVD).
       
       
      
       
        Molecular memory
        
       
        stores information in polymer that can store electric charge. Molecular memory might be especially suited for primary storage. The theoretical storage capacity of molecular memory is 10&nbsp;terabits per square inch (16&nbsp;Gbit/mm2).
       
       
      
       
        Magnetic photoconductors
        
       
        store magnetic information, which can be modified by low-light illumination.
       
       
      
       
        DNA
        
       
        stores information in DNA nucleotides. It was first done in 2012, when researchers achieved a ratio of 1.28&nbsp;petabytes per gram of DNA. In March 2017 scientists reported that a new algorithm called a DNA fountain achieved 85% of the theoretical limit, at 215&nbsp;petabytes per gram of DNA.
       
       
      Related technologies 
      Redundancy 
      
      
       Main articles: Disk mirroring and RAID
       
      
      
       See also: Storage replication
       
      While a group of bits malfunction may be resolved by error detection and correction mechanisms (see above), storage device malfunction requires different solutions. The following solutions are commonly used and valid for most storage devices:  
      
       Device mirroring (replication) – A common solution to the problem is constantly maintaining an identical copy of device content on another device (typically of a same type). The downside is that this doubles the storage, and both devices (copies) need to be updated simultaneously with some overhead and possibly some delays. The upside is possible concurrent read of a same data group by two independent processes, which increases performance. When one of the replicated devices is detected to be defective, the other copy is still operational, and is being utilized to generate a new copy on another device (usually available operational in a pool of stand-by devices for this purpose). 
       Redundant array of independent disks (RAID) – This method generalizes the device mirroring above by allowing one device in a group of ndevices to fail and be replaced with the content restored (Device mirroring is RAID with n=2). RAID groups of n=5 or n=6 are common. n&gt;2 saves storage, when comparing with n=2, at the cost of more processing during both regular operation (with often reduced performance) and defective device replacement.
       
      Device mirroring and typical RAID are designed to handle a single device failure in the RAID group of devices. However, if a second failure occurs before the RAID group is completely repaired from the first failure, then data can be lost. The probability of a single failure is typically small. Thus the probability of two failures in a same RAID group in time proximity is much smaller (approximately the probability squared, i.e., multiplied by itself). If a database cannot tolerate even such smaller probability of data loss, then the RAID group itself is replicated (mirrored). In many cases such mirroring is done geographically remotely, in a different storage array, to handle also recovery from disasters (see disaster recovery above).  
      Network connectivity 
      A secondary or tertiary storage may connect to a computer utilizing computer networks. This concept does not pertain to the primary storage, which is shared between multiple processors to a lesser degree.  
      
       Direct-attached storage (DAS) is a traditional mass storage, that does not use any network. This is still a most popular approach. This retronym was coined recently, together with NAS and SAN. 
       Network-attached storage (NAS) is mass storage attached to a computer which another computer can access at file level over a local area network, a private wide area network, or in the case of online file storage, over the Internet. NAS is commonly associated with the NFS and CIFS/SMB protocols. 
       Storage area network (SAN) is a specialized network, that provides other computers with storage capacity. The crucial difference between NAS and SAN, is that NAS presents and manages file systems to client computers, while SAN provides access at block-addressing (raw) level, leaving it to attaching systems to manage data or file systems within the provided capacity. SAN is commonly associated with Fibre Channel networks.
       
      Robotic storage 
      Large quantities of individual magnetic tapes, and optical or magneto-optical discs may be stored in robotic tertiary storage devices. In tape storage field they are known as tape libraries, and in optical storage field optical jukeboxes, or optical disk libraries per analogy. The smallest forms of either technology containing just one drive device are referred to as autoloaders or autochangers. 
      Robotic-access storage devices may have a number of slots, each holding individual media, and usually one or more picking robots that traverse the slots and load media to built-in drives. The arrangement of the slots and picking devices affects performance. Important characteristics of such storage are possible expansion options: adding slots, modules, drives, robots. Tape libraries may have from 10 to more than 100,000 slots, and provide terabytes or petabytes of near-line information. Optical jukeboxes are somewhat smaller solutions, up to 1,000 slots. 
      Robotic storage is used for backups, and for high-capacity archives in imaging, medical, and video industries. Hierarchical storage management is a most known archiving strategy of automatically migrating long-unused files from fast hard disk storage to libraries or jukeboxes. If the files are needed, they are retrieved back to disk.  
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiversity has learning resources about  Computer data storage
         
       
       
      Primary storage topics 
      
       Aperture (computer memory) 
       Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) 
       Memory latency 
       Mass storage 
       Memory cell (disambiguation) 
       Memory management 
        
         Memory leak 
         Virtual memory
         
       Memory protection 
       Page address register 
       Stable storage 
       Static random-access memory (SRAM)
       
      Secondary, tertiary and off-line storage topics 
      
       Cloud storage 
       Data deduplication 
       Data proliferation 
       Data storage tag used for capturing research data 
       Disk utility 
       File system 
        
         List of file formats
         
       Flash memory 
       Geoplexing 
       Information repository 
       Noise-predictive maximum-likelihood detection 
       Object(-based) storage 
       Removable media 
       Solid-state drive 
       Spindle 
       Virtual tape library 
       Wait state 
       Write buffer 
       Write protection
       
      Data storage conferences 
      
       Storage Networking World 
       Storage World Conference
       
      References 
      &nbsp;This article incorporates&nbsp;public domain material from the General Services Administration document: "Federal Standard 1037C".  
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c 
           Patterson, David A.; Hennessy, John L. (2005). Computer organization and design: The hardware/software interface (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Amsterdam: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;1-55860-604-1. OCLC&nbsp;56213091.  
         ^ Storage as defined in Microsoft Computing Dictionary, 4th Ed. (c)1999 or in The Authoritative Dictionary of IEEE Standard Terms, 7th Ed., (c) 2000.  
         ^ 
           "Documentation for /proc/sys/vm/ — The Linux Kernel documentation".  
         ^ 
           "Primary storage or storage hardware (shows usage of term "primary storage" meaning "hard disk storage")". searchstorage.techtarget.com. Archived from the original on 10 September 2008. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           J. S. Vitter (2008). Algorithms and data structures for external memory (PDF). Series on foundations and trends in theoretical computer science. Hanover, MA: now Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-60198-106-6. Archived (PDF) from the original on 4 January 2011.  
         ^ 
           "A thesis on tertiary storage" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 27 September 2007. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           Pearson, Tony (2010). "Correct use of the term nearline". IBM developer-works, inside system storage. Archived from the original on 24 November 2015. Retrieved 16 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           National Communications System (1996). "Federal Standard 1037C – Telecommunications: Glossary of Telecommunication Terms". General Services Administration. FS-1037C. Archived from the original on 2 March 2009. Retrieved 8 October 2007. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) See also article Federal standard 1037C.  
         ^ 
           "Energy savings calculator". Archived from the original on 21 December 2008.  
         ^ 
           "How much of the drive is actually eco-friendly?". Simple tech. Archived from the original on 5 August 2008.  
         ^ 
           Mike Chin (8 March 2004). "IS the Silent PC Future 2.5-inches wide?". Archived from the original on 20 July 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.  
         ^ 
           Mike Chin (18 September 2002). "Recommended hard drives". Archived from the original on 5 September 2008. Retrieved 2 August 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Super Talent's 2.5" IDE flash hard drive". The tech report. 12 July 2006. p.&nbsp;13. Archived from the original on 26 January 2012. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Power consumption – Tom's hardware&nbsp;: Conventional hard drive obsoletism? Samsung's 32 GB flash drive previewed". tomshardware.com. 20 September 2006. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ a b 
           Aleksey Meyev (23 April 2008). "SSD, i-RAM and traditional hard disk drives". X-bit labs. Archived from the original on 18 December 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Guide to storage encryption technologies for end user devices" (PDF). U.S. national institute of standards and technology. November 2007.  
         ^ 
           "Encryption specs" (PDF). software.intel.com. Retrieved 28 December 2019.  
         ^ 
           "A proposed API for full-memory encryption". Lwn.net. Retrieved 28 December 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Introduction to SPARC M7 and silicon secured memory (SSM)". swisdev.oracle.com. Archived from the original on 21 January 2019. Retrieved 28 December 2019.  
         ^ 
           "What S.M.A.R.T. hard disk errors actually tell us". Backblaze. 6 October 2016.  
         ^ 
           "QPxTool - check the quality". qpxtool.sourceforge.io.  
         ^ 
           "New Samsung notebook replaces hard drive with flash". Extreme tech. 23 May 2006. Archived from the original on 30 December 2010. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Toshiba tosses hat into notebook flash storage ring". technewsworld.com. Archived from the original on 18 March 2012. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Mac Pro – Storage and RAID options for your Mac Pro". Apple. 27 July 2006. Archived from the original on 6 June 2013. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "MacBook Air – The best of iPad meets the best of Mac". Apple. Archived from the original on 27 May 2013. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "MacBook Air replaces the standard notebook hard disk for solid state flash storage". news.inventhelp.com. 15 November 2010. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Comparing SSD and HDD endurance in the age of QLC SSDs" (PDF). Micron technology.  
         ^ 
           "Comparing SSD and HDD - A comprehensive comparison of the storage drives". www.stellarinfo.co.in.  
         ^ 
           "The DVD FAQ - A comprehensive reference of DVD technologies". Archived from the original on 22 August 2009.  
         ^ a b 
           Náfrádi, Bálint (24 November 2016). "Optically switched magnetism in photovoltaic perovskite CH3NH3(Mn:Pb)I3". Nature Communications. 7: 13406. arXiv:1611.08205. Bibcode:2016NatCo...713406N. doi:10.1038/ncomms13406. PMC&nbsp;5123013. PMID&nbsp;27882917.  
         ^ 
           "A paper-based backup solution (not as stupid as it sounds)". 14 August 2012.  
         ^ 
           Sterling, Bruce (16 August 2012). "PaperBack paper backup". Wired.  
         ^ 
           "New method of self-assembling nanoscale elements could transform data storage industry". sciencedaily.com. 1 March 2009. Archived from the original on 1 March 2009. Retrieved 18 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           Yong, Ed. "This speck of DNA contains a movie, a computer virus, and an Amazon gift card". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 3 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Researchers store computer operating system and short movie on DNA". phys.org. Archived from the original on 2 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           "DNA could store all of the world's data in one room". Science Magazine. 2 March 2017. Archived from the original on 2 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           Erlich, Yaniv; Zielinski, Dina (2 March 2017). "DNA Fountain enables a robust and efficient storage architecture". Science. 355 (6328): 950–954. Bibcode:2017Sci...355..950E. doi:10.1126/science.aaj2038. PMID&nbsp;28254941. S2CID&nbsp;13470340.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Goda, K.; Kitsuregawa, M. (2012). "The history of storage systems". Proceedings of the IEEE. 100: 1433–1440. doi:10.1109/JPROC.2012.2189787. 
       Memory &amp; storage, Computer history museum
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Basic computer components
           
         
         
          Input devices
          
           
           
            
             
              Pointing devices
              
                
                
                 Graphics tablet 
                 Game controller 
                 Light pen 
                 Mouse 
                  
                   Optical
                   
                 Optical trackpad 
                 Pointing stick 
                 Touchpad 
                 Touchscreen 
                 Trackball
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 Keyboard 
                 Image scanner 
                 Graphics card 
                  
                   GPU
                   
                 Microphone 
                 Refreshable braille display 
                 Sound card 
                  
                   Sound chip
                   
                 Webcam 
                  
                   Softcam
                  
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Output devices
          
            
            
             Monitor 
              
               Screen
               
             Refreshable braille display 
             Printer 
              
               Plotter
               
             Speakers 
             Sound card 
             Graphics card
             
           
         
         
          Removable  data storage
          
            
            
             Disk pack 
             Floppy disk 
             Optical disc 
              
               CD 
               DVD 
               Blu-ray
               
             Flash memory 
              
               Memory card 
               USB flash drive
              
             
           
         
         
          Computer case
          
            
            
             Central processing unit 
              
               Microprocessor
               
             Motherboard 
             Memory 
              
               RAM 
               BIOS
               
             Data storage 
              
               HDD 
               SSD (SATA / NVMe) 
               SSHD
               
             Power supply 
              
               SMPS
               
             MOSFET 
              
               Power MOSFET 
               VRM
               
             Network interface controller 
             Fax modem 
             Expansion card
             
           
         
         
          Ports
          
           
           
            
             
              Current
              
                
                
                 Ethernet 
                 USB 
                 Thunderbolt 
                 Analog audio jack 
                 DisplayPort 
                 HDMI
                 
               
             
             
              Obsolete
              
                
                
                 FireWire (IEEE 1394) 
                 Parallel port 
                 Serial port 
                 PS/2 port 
                 eSATA 
                 DVI 
                 VGA
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Primary computer data storage technologies
           
         
         
          Volatile memory
          
           
           
            
             
              Current
              
                
                
                 DRAM 
                  
                   e.g., DDR SDRAM
                   
                 SRAM
                 
               
             
             
              Future
              
                
                
                 Z-RAM
                 
               
             
             
              Historical
              
                
                
                 Delay-line memory 
                 Selectron tube 
                 Williams tube
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Non-volatile memory
          
           
           
            
             
              Current
              
                
                
                 RRAM ( 3D XPoint ) 
                 EAROM 
                 EEPROM 
                 EPROM 
                 Flash memory 
                 PROM 
                 ROM
                 
               
             
             
              Future
              
                
                
                 FeRAM 
                 MRAM 
                 NRAM 
                 PRAM 
                 SONOS
                 
               
             
             
              Historical
              
                
                
                 Bubble memory 
                 Drum memory 
                 Magnetic-core memory 
                 Twistor memory
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_data_storage&amp;oldid=1069974903"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Computer data storage
       Computer architecture
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from June 2020
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
       Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the Federal Standard 1037C
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Latina
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Олык марий
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 5 February 2022, at 01:24&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
