
 
  
   
  Information retrieval - Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information retrieval 
    
    
     From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
       
       
         
         “  
         But do you know that, although I have kept the diary  for months past, it never once struck me how I was going to find any particular part of it in case I wanted to look it up?  
         ” 
         
         
         —Dr Seward Bram Stoker's Dracula, 1897 
        
       
       
      Information retrieval is a field of Computer science that looks at how non-trivial data can be obtained from a collection of information resources. Commonly, either a full-text search is done, or the metadata which describes the resources is searched. Depending on the content, there may also be other indices. Information retrieval is about finding existing information; it is different from knowledge discovery in databases which is about finding new relationships between different datasets, which were unknown. 
      Techniques from information retrieval are commonly used in internet search engines, but also when looking for information on a subject in a library, or when searching complex content such as images in a database. This kind of content is usually described using metadata.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Problem description 
        2 Different models 
          
          2.1 First dimension: the mathematical model 
          2.2 Second dimension: the properties of the model 
           
        
       
      Problem description 
      When looking for information, the following problems are commonly encountered:  
      
       The database contains an insufficient amount of information about the content of the documents it contains. A search may yield an incorrect answer, or no answer at all. 
       The search is done with terms and keywords that are vague, so that the results returned do not exactly match the needs of the request.
       
      A system for information retrieval will attach a score to each document returned. This score reflects how well the document matches the query of the user. The documents with the best scores are shown to the user, who has the possibility to refine the query.  
      Different models 
      There are different kinds of models that are used in information retrieval  
      First dimension: the mathematical model 
      
       Set-theoretic models represent documents as a set of words or features. 
       Algebraic models use vectors, matrices and tuples. 
       Probabilistic models treat the process of document retrieval as a probabilistic inference. Similarities are computed as probabilities that a document is relevant for a given query. Probabilistic theorems like the Bayes' theorem are often used in these models. 
       Feature-based retrieval models view documents as vectors of values of feature functions (or just features) and seek the best way to combine these features into a single relevance score, typically by learning to rank methods. Feature functions are arbitrary functions of document and query, and as such can easily incorporate almost any other retrieval model as just a yet another feature.
       
      Second dimension: the properties of the model 
      
       Models without term-interdependancies treat different terms/words as independent. This fact is usually represented in vector space models by the orthogonality assumption of term vectors or in probabilistic models by an independency assumption for term variables. 
       Models with immanent term interdependencies allow a representation of interdependencies between terms. However the degree of the interdependency between two terms is defined by the model itself. It is usually directly or indirectly derived (e.g. by dimensional reduction) from the co-occurrence of those terms in the whole set of documents. 
       Models with transcendent term interdependencies allow a representation of interdependencies between terms, but they do not allege how the interdependency between two terms is defined. They rely an external source for the degree of interdependency between two terms. (For example a human or sophisticated algorithms.)
       
      In addition, each model has parameters, which influence its performance. Some of the models make a number of assumption about the data; they were developed for a very special purpose. Using such a model for a different purpose may not yield good results.  
      
        This short article about technology can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by adding to it.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_retrieval&amp;oldid=7260993"
     
     
    
     
      Category: 
      
       Computer science
      
     
     
      Hidden category: 
      
       Technology stubs
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Page
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Change
        Change source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Getting around  
      
      
       Main page
       Simple start
       Simple talk
       New changes
       Show any page
       Help
       Contact us
       Give to Wikipedia
       About Wikipedia
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Make a book
       Download as PDF
       Page for printing
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      In other languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       English
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Bahasa Melayu
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Change links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last changed on 11 January 2021, at 15:13. 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License and the GFDL; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
