
 
  
   
  Preservation (library and archive) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Preservation (library and archive) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Preservation (library and archival science))
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Set of activities aimed at prolonging the life of a record or object
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         National Bureau of Standards preserving the U.S. Declaration of Independence in 1951
        
       
       
      In library and archival science, preservation is a set of preventive conservation activities aimed at prolonging the life of a record, book, or object while making as few changes as possible. Preservation activities vary widely and may include monitoring the condition of items, maintaining the temperature and humidity in collection storage areas, writing a plan in case of emergencies, digitizing items, writing relevant metadata, and increasing accessibility. Preservation, in this definition, is practiced in a library or an archive by a librarian, archivist, or other professional when they perceive a record is in need of maintenance. 
      Preservation should be distinguished from interventive conservation and restoration, which refers to the treatment and repair of individual items to slow the process of decay, or restore them to a usable state. Preventive conservation is occasionally used interchangeably with preservation, particularly outside the professional literature.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Fundamentals 
          
          1.1 Standard functions of preservation programs 
          1.2 Media-specific issues and treatments 
          1.3 Digitization 
           
        2 Practices 
          
          2.1 Storage environment 
          2.2 Preservation criteria 
          2.3 Standards 
          2.4 Research and testing 
           
        3 Education 
        4 Preservation in non-academic facilities 
          
          4.1 Public libraries 
          4.2 Archival repositories and special collections 
          4.3 Museums 
           
        5 History 
          
          5.1 Antecedents 
          5.2 Significant events 
          5.3 Significant people 
           
        6 Legal and ethical issues 
        7 Criticism and reception 
          
          7.1 The library as a sacred institution 
           
        8 See also 
        9 Footnotes 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Fundamentals 
      
      
       See also: Digital preservation §&nbsp;Fundamentals
       
      Standard functions of preservation programs 
      
       Risk management in collections is the preventive care of a collection as a whole. 
        
         Preservation can include general collections maintenance activities such as security, environmental monitoring, preservation surveys, and more specialized activities such as mass deacidification. 
         Disaster preparedness (RT: Disaster Plan / Business Continuation / Disaster Recovery / Disaster Mitigation Plan) is the practice of arranging for the necessary resources and planning the best course of action to prevent or minimize damage to a collection in the event of a disaster of any level of magnitude, whether natural or man-made. 
         Digital preservation is the maintenance of digitally stored information. Some means of digital preservation include refreshing, migration, replication and emulation. This should not be confused with digitization, which is a process of creating digital information which must then itself be preserved digitally. 
         Reformatting is the practice of creating copies of an object in another type of data-storage device. Reformatting processes include microfilming and digitization.
        
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Preservation and recording of magnetic tapes at Fonoteca Nacional (National Sound Archive of Mexico).
        
       
       
      Media-specific issues and treatments 
      
       Books - Sizing &amp; Leather Binding 
       Ephemera and Realia 
       Paper - Acid-free paper, Japanese tissue, Mummy paper, Paper splitting, &amp; Print permanence 
       Parchment - Parchment repair &amp; Preservation of Illuminated Manuscripts 
       Moving image - Film preservation &amp; Video recording 
       Sound recording - Preservation of magnetic audiotape 
       Oral history preservation 
       Language Preservation 
       Visual material - Color photography § Preservation issues &amp; Architectural reprography, a variety of technologies and media used to make multiple copies of original drawings or records created by architects, engineers, mapmakers and related professionals. 
       Optical media preservation 
       Ink
       
      
      
       Further information: Media preservation
       
      Digitization 
      
      
       Main article: Digitizing
       
      A relatively new concept, digitization, has been hailed as a way to preserve historical items for future use. "Digitizing refers to the process of converting analog materials into digital form." 
      For manuscripts, digitization is achieved through scanning an item and saving it to a digital format. For example, the Google Book Search program has partnered with over forty libraries around the world to digitize books. The goal of this library partnership project is to "make it easier for people to find relevant books – specifically, books they wouldn't find any other way such as those that are out of print – while carefully respecting authors' and publishers' copyrights." 
      Although digitization seems to be a promising area for future preservation, there are also problems. The main problems are that digital space costs money, media and file formats may become obsolete, and backwards compatibility is not guaranteed. Higher-quality images take a longer time to scan, but are often more valuable for future use. Fragile items are often more difficult or more expensive to scan, which creates a selection problem for preservationists where they must decide if digital access in the future is worth potentially damaging the item during the scanning process. Other problems include scan quality, redundancy of digitized books among different libraries, and copyright law. 
      However, many of these problems are being solved through educational initiatives. Educational programs are tailoring themselves to fit preservation needs and help new students understand preservation practices. Programs teaching graduate students about digital librarianship are especially important. 
      Groups such as the Digital Preservation Network strive to ensure that "the complete scholarly record is preserved for future generations". The Library of Congress maintains a Sustainability of Digital Formats web site that educates institutions on various aspects of preservation: most notably, on approximately 200 digital format types and which are most likely to last into the future. 
      Digital Preservation is another name for digitization, and is the term more commonly used in archival courses. The main goal of digital preservation is to guarantee that people will have access to the digitally preserved materials long into the future.  
      Practices 
      When practicing preservation, one has several factors to consider in order to properly preserve a record: 1) the storage environment of the record, 2) the criteria to determine when preservation is necessary, 3) what the standard preservation practices are for that particular institution, 4) research and testing, and 5) if any vendor services will be needed for further preservation and potentially conservation.  
      Storage environment 
      Environmental controls are necessary to facilitate the preservation of organic materials and are especially important to monitor in rare and special collections. Key environmental factors to watch include temperature, relative humidity, pests, pollutants, and light exposure. 
      In general, the lower the temperature is, the better it is for the collection. However, since books and other materials are often housed in areas with people, a compromise must be struck to accommodate human comfort. A reasonable temperature to accomplish both goals is 65-68˚F (18-20 °C) however, if possible, film and photography collections should be kept in a segregated area at 55˚F (13 °C). 
      Books and other materials take up and give off moisture making them sensitive to relative humidity. Very high humidity encourages mold growth and insect infestations. Low humidity causes materials to lose their flexibility. Fluctuations in relative humidity are more damaging than a constant humidity in the middle or low range. Generally, the relative humidity should be between 30-50% with as little variation as possible, however recommendations on specific levels to maintain vary depending on the type of material, i.e. paper-based, film, etc. A specialized dew point calculator for book preservation is available. 
      Pests, such as insects and vermin, eat and destroy paper and the adhesive that secures book bindings. Food and drink in libraries, archives, and museums can increase the attraction of pests. An Integrated Pest Management system is one way to control pests in libraries. 
      Particulate and gaseous pollutants, such as soot, ozone, sulfur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, can cause dust, soiling, and irreversible molecular damage to materials. Pollutants are exceedingly small and not easily detectable or removable. A special filtration system in the building's HVAC is a helpful defense. 
      Exposure to light also has a significant effect on materials. It is not only the light visible to humans that can cause damage, but also ultraviolet light and infrared radiation. Measured in lux or the amount of lumens/m2, the generally accepted level of illumination with sensitive materials is limited to 50 lux per day. Materials receiving more lux than recommended can be placed in dark storage periodically to prolong the original appearance of the object. 
      Recent concerns about the impact of climate change on the management of cultural heritage objects as well as the historic environment has prompted research efforts to investigate alternative climate control methods and strategies that include the implementation of alternative climate control systems to replace or supplement traditional high-energy consuming HVAC systems as well as the introduction of passive preservation techniques. Rather than maintaining a flat line, consistent 24/7 condition for a collection's environment, fluctuation can occur within acceptable limits to create a preservation environment while also thinking of energy efficiency and taking advantage of the outside environment. 
      Bound materials are sensitive to rapid temperature or humidity cycling due to differential expansion of the binding and pages, which may cause the binding to crack and/or the pages to warp. Changes in temperature and humidity should be done slowly so as to minimize the difference in expansion rates. However, an accelerated aging study on the effects of fluctuating temperature and humidity on paper color and strength showed no evidence that cycling of one temperature to another or one RH to another caused a different mechanism of decay. 
      The preferred method for storing manuscripts, archival records, and other paper documents is to place them in acid-free paper folders which are then placed in acid-free of low-lignin boxes for further protection. Similarly, books that are fragile, valuable, oddly shaped, or in need of protection can be stored in archival boxes and enclosures. Additionally, housing books can protect them from many of the contributing factors to book damage: pests, light, temperature changes, and water. 
       Contamination can occur at the time of manufacture, especially with electronic materials. It must be stopped before it spreads, but it is usually irreversible.
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Flickr user describes an incident of putting a banana stained book in their backpack and leaving it for a couple weeks with this result.
        
       
       
      Preservation criteria 
      Making a proper decision is an important factor before starting preservation practices. Decision making for preservation should be made considering significance and value of materials. Significance is considered to have two major components: importance and quality. "Importance" relates to the collection's role as a record, and "quality" covers comprehensiveness, depth, uniqueness, authenticity and reputation of the collection. Moreover, analyzing the significance of materials can be used to uncover more about their meaning. Assessment of significance can also aid in documenting the provenance and context to argue the case for grant funding for the object and collection. 
      Forms of significance can be historically, culturally, socially, or spiritually significant. In the preservation context, libraries and archives make decisions in different ways. In libraries, decision-making likely targets existing holding materials, whereas in archives, decisions for preservation are often made when they acquire materials. Therefore, different criteria might be needed on different occasions. In general, for archive criteria, the points include:  
      
       the characteristics of a record (purpose, creator, etc.); 
       the quality of the information in the record; 
       the record in context (part of a series or not); 
       potential use and possible limitations; and 
       the cost against the benefits from its existence.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Worn books at the library of Merton College, Oxford.
        
       
      
      For archival criteria, the following are evidence of significance: 
      
       uniqueness, 
       irreplaceability, 
       high level of impact – over time or place, 
       high level of influence, 
       representation of a type, and 
       comparative value (rarity, completeness, integrity relative to others of its kind).
       
      Standards 
      Since the 1970s, the Northeast Document Conservation Center has stated that the study of understanding the needs of the archive/library is inherently important to their survival. To prolong the life of a collection, it is important that a systematic preservation plan is in place. The first step in planning a preservation program is to assess the institution's existing preservation needs. This process entails identifying the general and specific needs of the collection, establishing priorities, and gathering the resources to execute the plan. 
      Because budget and time limitations require priorities to be set, standards have been established by the profession to determine what should be preserved in a collection. Considerations include existing condition, rarity, and evidentiary and market values. With non-paper formats, the availability of equipment to access the information will be a factor (for example, playback equipment for audio-visual materials, or microform readers). An institution should determine how many, if any, other institutions hold the material, and consider coordinating efforts with those that do. 
      Institutions should establish an environment that prioritizes preservation and create an understanding among administration and staff. Additionally, the institution's commitment to preservation should be communicated to funders and stakeholders so that funds can be allocated towards preservation efforts. The first steps an institution should implement, according to the NEDCC, are to establish a policy that defines and charts the course of action and create a framework for carrying out goals and priorities. 
      There are three methods for carrying out a preservation survey: general preservation assessment, collection condition surveys, and an item-by-item survey. General condition surveys can be part of a library inventory. 
      Selection for treatment determines the survival of materials and should be done by a specialist, whether in relation to an established collection development policy or on an item by item basis. Once an object or collection has been chosen for preservation, the treatment must be determined that is most appropriate to the material and its collecting institution. If the information is most important, reformatting or creation of a surrogate is a likely option. If the artifact itself is of value, it will receive conservation treatment, ideally of a reversible nature.  
      Research and testing 
      With old media deteriorating or showing their vulnerabilities and new media becoming available, research remains active in the field of conservation and preservation. Everything from how to preserve paper media to creating and maintaining electronic resources and gauging their digital permanence is being explored by students and professionals in archives/libraries. The two main issues that most institutions tend to face are the rapid disintegration of acidic paper and water damage (due to flooding, plumbing problems, etc.). Therefore, these areas of preservation, as well as new digital technologies, receive much of the research attention. 
      The American Library Association has many scholarly journals that publish articles on preservation topics, such as College and Research Libraries, Information Technology and Libraries, and Library Resources and Technical Services. Scholarly periodicals in this field from other publishers include International Preservation News, Journal of the American Institute for Conservation, and Collection Management among many others.  
      Education 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate. (May 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Learning the proper methods of preservation is important and most archivists are educated on the subject at academic institutions that specifically cover archives and preservation. In the United States most repositories require archivists to have a degree from an ALA-accredited library school. Similar institutions exist in countries outside the US. 
      Since 2010, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has enhanced funding for library and archives conservation education in three major conservation programs. These programs are all part of the Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property (ANAGPIC). 
      Another educational resource available to preservationists is the Northeast Document Conservation Center or NEDCC. 
       The Preservation, Planning and Publications Committee of the Preservation and Reformatting Section (PARS) in the Association for Library Collections &amp; Technical Services has created a Preservation Education Directory of ALA Accredited schools in the U.S. and Canada offering courses in preservation. The directory is updated approximately every three years. The 10th Edition was made available on the ALCTS web site in March 2015.
      
       
        
         Information science
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
           
           
            Access 
            Architecture 
            Behavior 
            Management 
            Retrieval 
            Seeking 
            Society 
            Knowledge organization 
            Ontology 
            Philosophy 
            Science and technology studies 
            Taxonomy
            
           
        
        
          Related fields and sub-fields
        
        
          
           
           
            Bibliometrics 
            Categorization 
            Censorship 
            Classification 
            Computer data storage 
            Cultural studies 
            Data modeling 
            Informatics 
            Information technology 
            Intellectual freedom 
            Intellectual property 
            Library and information science 
            Memory 
            Preservation 
            Privacy 
            Quantum information science
            
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
      
      Additional preservation education is available to librarians through various professional organizations, such as: 
      
       American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works 
       American Library Association 
       Amigos Library Services Preservation Service 
       Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM) 
       Association for Recorded Sound Collections (ARSC) 
       Association of Moving Image Archivists (AMIA) 
       Buffalo State College. Art Conservation Department, Buffalo, NY 
       Campbell Center for Historic Preservation Studies, Mount Carroll, IL. 
       George Eastman House. School of Film &amp; Video Preservation Rochester, NY 
       The International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF) Bologna, IT 
       The Kilgarlin Center for Preservation of the Cultural Record 
       Library Binding Institute 
       New York University. Conservation Center, Institute of Fine Arts, New York, NY 
       North Bennet Street School. Boston, MA 
       Northeast Document Conservation Center (NEDCC) 
       The Conservation Center for Art and Historic Artifacts in Philadelphia, PA 
       Queen's University. Master of Art Conservation Program, Ont, Canada 
        Rare Book School (RBS) at the University of Virginia 
       Society of American Archivists 
       LYRASIS 
       University of Delaware. Winterthur Art Conservation Program, Newark, DE 
       The National Archives
       
      Preservation in non-academic facilities 
      Public libraries 
      Limited, tax-driven funding can often interfere with the ability for public libraries to engage in extensive preservation activities. Materials, particularly books, are often much easier to replace than to repair when damaged or worn. Public libraries usually try to tailor their services to meet the needs and desires of their local communities, which could cause an emphasis on acquiring new materials over preserving old ones. Librarians working in public facilities frequently have to make complicated decisions about how to best serve their patrons. Commonly, public library systems work with each other and sometimes with more academic libraries through interlibrary loan programs. By sharing resources, they are able to expand upon what might be available to their own patrons and share the burdens of preservation across a greater array of systems.  
      Archival repositories and special collections 
      Archival facilities focus specifically on rare and fragile materials. With staff trained in appropriate techniques, archives are often available to many public and private library facilities as an alternative to destroying older materials. Items that are unique, such as photographs, or items that are out of print, can be preserved in archival facilities more easily than in many library settings.  
      Museums 
      Because so many museum holdings are unique, including print materials, art, and other objects, preservationists are often most active in this setting; however, since most holdings are usually much more fragile, or possibly corrupted, conservation may be more necessary than preservation. This is especially common in art museums. Museums typically hold to the same practices lead by archival institutions.  
      History 
      Antecedents 
      Preservation as a formal profession in libraries and archives dates from the twentieth century, but its philosophy and practice has roots in many earlier traditions. 
      In many ancient societies, appeals to heavenly protectors were used to preserve books, scrolls and manuscripts from insects, fire and decay.  
      
       To the ancient Egyptians, the scarab or dung beetle (see: Scarab (artifact)) was a protector of written products. 
       In ancient Babylon, Nabu is the heavenly patron of books and protector of clay tablets. Nabu is the Babylonian god of wisdom and writing, and is the patron of the scribes, librarians and archivists. 
       In Arabic and other eastern societies, sometimes a traditional method to protect books and scrolls was a metaphysical appeal to "Kabi:Kaj", the "King of the Cockroaches". 
       There are three saints in the Christian church that are closely associated with libraries as patrons: Saint Lawrence, Saint Jerome, and Saint Catharine of Alexandria or Catherine of Alexandria. 
       In some Christian monasteries, prayers and curses were placed at the end of books to prevent theft, or to damn the thieves. Frequently called a "book curse", these were placed in the book to deter theft. 
       The ancient Chinese god Wei T'O is the patron god of libraries and books. Many examples of appeals to Wei T'O can be found in Chinese manuscripts dated five hundred or more years ago. Wei T'O is especially invoked for the protection of books and libraries against fire. Since the modern books are suffering from acid decomposition (slow fires), Wei T'O is especially relevant to modern librarianship. A modern product to de-acidify paper is named in his honor. 
       Sri Lankan symbols or images of the Sinhalese "Fire Demons" are hung in the corners of libraries and other buildings to appease the incendiary demons and to avert fire, lightning and cataclysm, according to Sinhalese mythology. Since fire and acid decomposition (also known as "slow fires") are a special problem for libraries because of the concentration of paper products, the "Fire Demons" are also included when used to assuage these destroyers of libraries and books. 
       The Aztec and Mayan Indians of Latin America also had deities concerned with libraries. The major god, Quetzalcoatl, is credited with the discoveries of the arts, the calendar, and of writing. A single feather or plume at the beginning or at the end of a document or stone carving would indicate a dedication to the "Feathered Serpent." This symbol degenerated over time to a single fringed line.
       
      Human record-keeping arguably dates back to the cave painting boom of the upper paleolithic, some 32,000-40,000 years ago. More direct antecedents are the writing systems that developed in the 4th millennium B.C. Written record keeping and information sharing practices, along with oral tradition, sustain and transmit information from one group to another. This level of preservation has been supplemented over the last century with the professional practice of preservation and conservation in the cultural heritage community.  
      
       Oral tradition or oral culture, the transmission of information from one generation to the next without a writing system. 
       Antiquarian practices, including scribal practice,  burial practice, the libraries at Pergamum, Alexandria and other ancient archives. 
       Medieval practices, including the scriptorium and relic collection 
       Renaissance and the changing conception of artists and works of art 
       Enlightenment and the Encyclopedists 
       Romantic movement's imperative to preserve
       
      Significant events 
      
       1933: William Barrow introduces the field of conservation to paper deacidification when he publishes a paper on the acid paper problem. In later studies, Barrow tested paper from American books made between 1900 and 1949, and learned that after forty years the books had lost on average 96 percent of their original strength; after less than ten years, they had already lost 64 percent. Barrow determined that this rapid deterioration was not the direct result of using wood-pulp fibers, since rag papers of this period were also aging rapidly, but rather due to the residual sulfuric acid produced in both rag and wood pulp papers. Earlier papermaking methods left the final product only mildly alkaline or even neutral and such paper has maintained its strength for 300 to 800 years, despite sulfur dioxide and other air pollutants. The manufacturing methods used after 1870, however, employed sulfuric acid for sizing and bleaching the paper, which would eventually lead to yellowing, brittle paper. Barrow's 1933 article on the fragile state of wood pulp paper predicted the life expectancy, or "LE", of this paper was approximately 40–50 years. At that point the paper would begin to show signs of natural decay, and he concluded that research for a new media on which to write and print was needed. 
       1966: The Flood of the River Arno in Florence, Italy damaged or destroyed millions of rare books and led to the development of restoration laboratories and new methods in conservation. Instrumental in this process was conservationist Peter Waters, who led a group of volunteers, called "mud angels", in restoring thousands of books and papers. This event awakened many historians, librarians, and other professionals to the importance of having a preservation plan. Many consider this flood to be one of the worst disasters since the burning of the Library of Alexandria. It spurred a resurgence in the profession of preservation and conservation worldwide, including the addition of a Preservation Office at the Library of Congress. 
       1987: Terry Saunders releases the film Slow Fires: On the Preservation of the Human Record which examines paper embrittlement resulting from acid decay 
       1989: March 7  Major US print publishers convene at NYPL to endorse a community-wide commitment to utilizing ISO 9706 certified permanent durable paper in order to combat the acid paper epidemic.
       
      Significant people 
      
       William Barrow (1904–1967) was an American chemist and paper conservator, and a pioneer of library and archives conservation. He introduced the field of conservation to paper deacidification through alkalization. 
       Paul N. Banks (1934–2000) was Conservator and Head of the Conservation Department at the Newberry Library from 1964 to 1981, and published regularly on bookbinding, book and paper conservation, and problems related to conservation. He designed and implemented a curriculum for Columbia University's School of Library Science that dealt directly with preservation training. 
       Pamela Darling, author and historian, was Preservation Specialist for the Association of Research Libraries. Her works include materials to aid libraries in establishing their own comprehensive preservation programs. 
       Carolyn Harris worked as head of Columbia University Libraries' Preservation Division from 1981 until 1987, where she worked closely with Paul Banks. She published extensive research throughout her career, especially dealing with mass deacidification of wood-pulp paper. 
       Peter Waters, former Conservation Officer at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC, worked in the areas of disaster recovery and preparedness, and the salvaging of water-damaged paper goods. 
       Nicholson Baker is a contemporary American novelist and author of Double Fold, a criticism of libraries' destruction of paper-based media. 
       Patricia Battin, as the first president of the Commission on Preservation and Access, worked to organize a national campaign both for the use of alkaline paper in publishing companies and for a national program of preservation microfilming. 
       John F. Dean, Preservation and Conservation Librarian at Cornell University, has made contributions towards improving preservation efforts in developing countries. Specifically, Dean has created online tutorials for library conservation and preservation in Southeast Asia and Iraq and the Middle East.
       
      The Paul Banks and Carolyn Harris Preservation Award for outstanding preservation specialists in library and archival science, is given annually by the Association for Library Collections &amp; Technical Services, a subdivision of the American Library Association. It is awarded in recognition of professional preservation specialists who have made significant contributions to the field.  
      Legal and ethical issues 
      Reformatting, or in any other way copying an item's contents, raises obvious copyright issues. In many cases, a library is allowed to make a limited number of copies of an item for preservation purposes. In the United States, certain exceptions have been made for libraries and archives. 
      Ethics will play an important role in many aspects of the conservator's activities. When choosing which objects are in need of treatment, the conservator should do what is best for the object in question and not yield to pressure or opinion from outside sources. Conservators should refer to the AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice, which states that the conservation professional must "strive to attain the highest possible standards in all aspects of conservation." 
      One instance in which these decisions may get tricky is when the conservator is dealing with cultural objects. The AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice has addressed such concerns, stating "All actions of the conservation professional must be governed by an informed respect for cultural property, its unique character and significance and the people or person who created it." This can be applied in both the care and long-term storage of objects in archives and institutions. 
      It is important that preservation specialists to be respectful of cultural property and the societies that created it, it is also important for them to be aware of international and national laws pertaining to stolen items. In recent years there has been a rise in nations seeking out artifacts that have been stolen and are now in museums. In many cases museums are working with the nations to find a compromise to balance the need for reliable supervision as well as access for both the public and researchers. 
      Conservators are not just bound by ethics to treat cultural and religious objects with respect, but also in some cases by law. For example, in the United States, conservators must comply with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). The First Archivists Circle, a group of Native American archivists, has also created Protocols for Native American Archival Materials. The non-binding guidelines are suggestions for libraries and archives with Native American archival materials. 
      The care of cultural and sacred objects often affects the physical storage or the object. For example, sacred objects of the native peoples of the Western United States are supposed to be stored with sage to ensure their spiritual well being. The idea of storing an object with plant material is inherently problematic to an archival collection because of the possibility of insect infestation. When conservators have faced this problem, they have addressed it by using freeze-dried sage, thereby meeting both conservation and cultural needs. 
      Some individuals in the archival community have explored the possible moral responsibility to preserve all cultural phenomena, in regards to the concept of monumental preservation. Other advocates argue that such an undertaking is something that the indigenous or native communities that produce such cultural objects are better suited to perform. Currently, however, many indigenous communities are not financially able to support their own archives and museums. Still, indigenous archives are on the rise in the United States.  
      Criticism and reception 
      There is a longstanding tension between preservation of and access to library materials, particularly in the area of special collections. Handling materials promotes their progression to an unusable state, especially if they are handled carelessly. On the other hand, materials must be used in order to gain any benefit from them. In a collection with valuable materials, this conflict is often resolved by a number of measures which can include heightened security, requiring the use of gloves for photographs, restricting the materials researchers may bring with them into a reading room, and restricting use of materials to patrons who are not able to satisfy their research needs with less valuable copies of an item. These restrictions are annoyances to researchers who feel that these measures are in place solely to keep materials out of the hands of the public. 
      There is also controversy surrounding preservation methods. A major controversy at the end of the twentieth century centered on the practice of discarding items that had been microfilmed. This was the subject of novelist Nicholson Baker's book Double Fold, which chronicled his efforts to save many old runs of American newspapers (formerly owned by the British Library) from being sold to dealers or pulped. A similar concern persists over the retention of original documents reformatted by any means, analog or digital. Concerns include scholarly needs and legal requirements for authentic or original records as well as questions about the longevity, quality and completeness of reformatted materials. Retention of originals as a source or fail-safe copy is now a fairly common practice. Another controversy revolving around different preservation methods is that of digitization of original material to maintain the intellectual content of the material while ignoring the physical nature of the book. Further, the Modern Language Association's Committee on the Future of the Print Record structured its "Statement on the Significance of Primary Records" on the inherent theoretical ideology that there is a need to preserve as many copies of a printed edition as is possible as texts and their textual settings are, quite simply, not separable, just as the artifactual characteristics of texts are as relevant and varied as the texts themselves (in the report mentioned herewith, G. Thomas Tanselle suggests that presently existing book stacks need not be abandoned with emerging technologies; rather they serve as vitally important original (primary) sources for future study). 
      Many digitized items, such as back issues of periodicals, are provided by publishers and databases on a subscription basis. If these companies were to cease providing access to their digital information, facilities that elected to discard paper copies of these periodicals could face significant difficulties in providing access to these items. Discussion as to the best ways to utilize digital technologies is therefore ongoing, and the practice continues to evolve. Of course, the issues surrounding digital objects and their care in libraries and archives continues to expand as more and more of contemporary culture is created, stored, and used digitally. These born-digital materials raise their own new kinds of preservation challenges and in some cases they may even require use new kinds of tools and techniques.  
      The library as a sacred institution 
      In her book "Sacred Stacks: The Higher Purpose of Libraries and Librarianship", Nancy Kalikow Maxwell discusses how libraries are capable of performing some of the same functions as religion. Many librarians feel that their work is done for some higher purpose. The same can be said for preservation librarians. One instance of the library's role as sacred is to provide a sense of immortality: with the ever-changing world outside, the library will remain stable and dependable. Preservation is a great help in this regard. Through digitization and reformatting, preservation librarians are able to retain material while at the same time adapting to new methods. In this way, libraries can adapt to the changes in user needs without changing the quality of the material itself. Through preservation efforts, patrons can rest assured that although materials are constantly deteriorating over time, the library itself will remain a stable, reliable environment for their information needs. Another sacred ability of the library is to provide information and a connection to the past. By working to slow down the processes of deterioration and decay of library materials, preservation practices help keep this link to the past alive.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Archaeological site 
        Architectural conservation 
        Archival science 
        Art conservation and restoration 
        Digital artifactual value 
        Disaster recovery plan 
        Hand-colouring of photographs 
        Historic preservation 
        History of Public Library Advocacy 
        Library and information science 
        Library binding 
        Library management 
        Museology 
        Public Library Advocacy 
        Quipu 
        Tribal Historic Preservation Officer 
        Video game preservation 
        Wood-pulp paper
        
       
      Footnotes 
      
       
        
        ^ "conservation". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists.  
        ^ 
          "Preservation of Cultural Artifacts". wiki.spsu.edu. Southern Polytechnic State University. Archived from the original on 2007-06-11. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          Rieger, Oya Y. (2008). "Preservation in the Age of Large-Scale Digitization: A White Paper" (PDF). Washington, D.C.: Council on Library and Information Resources. p.&nbsp;10. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-09-19.  
        ^ 
          Google Books Library Project.  
        ^ Rieger, 24-25  
        ^ Rieger, 14  
        ^ 
          Conway, Paul (2010). "Preservation in the Age of Google: Digitization, Digital Preservation, and Dilemmas". Library Quarterly. 80 (1): 73. doi:10.1086/648463. hdl:2027.42/85223. S2CID&nbsp;57213909.  
        ^ 
          "Digital Preservation Network".  
        ^ 
          "Library of Congress: Sustainability of Digital Formats".  
        ^ 
          "Definitions of Digital Preservation". Association for Library Collections &amp; Technical Services (ALCTS). 24 June 2007.  
        ^ Lull, W.P. (1990). Conservation environment guidelines for libraries and archives; with the assistance of Paul N. Banks. Albany, NY: The University of the State of New York, The State Education Dept., The New York State Library, Division of Library Development.  
        ^ 
          "Temperature, Relative Humidity, Light, and Air Quality: Basic Guidelines for Preservation". Northeast Document Conservation Center. Archived from the original on 2007-12-12. Retrieved 2007-12-09.  
        ^ "Dew Point Calculator." Image Permanence Institute. Retrieved May 16, 2011 from http://www.dpcalc.org/ &gt;  
        ^ 
          "UCSD Libraries Preservation Department. "Why is Eating and Drinking in the Library Discouraged?" 2006. UCSD. 18 June 2008". Archived from the original on 2006-08-30. Retrieved 2008-07-18.  
        ^ Thomson, G. The Museum Environment. 2nd ed. London: Butterworths, 1986  
        ^ 
          "Climate change and the historic environment". Centre for Sustainable Heritage, University College London. Archived from the original on 2008-05-04. Retrieved 2008-04-27.  
        ^ 
          "From the Outside in: Preventive conservation, sustainability, and environmental conservation". Getty Conservation Institute. Retrieved 2008-04-25.  
        ^ 
          "Collections care, human comfort, and climate control: A case study at the Casa de Rui Barbosa Museum". Getty Conservation Institute. Retrieved 2008-04-25.  
        ^ 
          Herzog, Peter (July 2008). "Energy Savings and Collection Management". Image Permanence Institute. RIT. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011.  
        ^ 
          Bigourdan, Jean-Louis; Reilly, James M. "Effects of Fluctuating Environments on Paper Materials--Stability and Practical Significance for Preservation". Image Permanence Institute. RIT. Archived from the original on 26 July 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Boxes". National Archives. 2016-08-15. Retrieved 2019-05-01.  
        ^ 
          "For Delicate Books, Safe and Snug Houses | Preservation Week 2014". 16th Street. Retrieved 2019-05-04.  
        ^ 
          Kroslowitz, Karen (October 26, 2012). "Preservation, Conservation, Restoration: What's the Difference?". Computer History Museum.  
        ^ 
          "Banana Book". Flickr. Retrieved 2018-05-07.  
        ^ 
          "A Significance Recognition Scheme for Non-National Museums and Galleries in Scotland" (PDF). Scottish Museums Council. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-11-06. Retrieved 2007-10-08.  
        ^ a b 
          Dorner, Daniel; Young, Sophie (2007). "A Regional Approach to Identifying Items of National Significance Held by Small Cultural Institutions in New Zealand". Archived from the original on 2007-03-28. Retrieved 2017-07-03.  
        ^ 
          "Significance - A Guide to Assessing the Significance of Cultural Heritage Objects and Collections". Heritage Collections Council (Australia). Retrieved 2007-10-08.  
        ^ 
          Pymm, Bob (2006). "Building Collections for All Time: the Issue of Significance". Australian Academic &amp; Research Libraries. 37 (1): 61–73. doi:10.1080/00048623.2006.10755323.  
        ^ 
          Patkus, Beth (2003). "Assessing Preservation Needs, A Self-Survey Guide". Andover: Northeast Document Conservation Center. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ a b 
          Nichols, Stephen G.; Smith, Abby (2001). The Evidence in Hand: Report of the Task Force on the Artifact in Library Collections. Washington, D.C.: Council on Library and Information Resources. ISBN&nbsp;1-887334-88-2. OCLC&nbsp;48623491.  
        ^ 
          Matthews, Graham (1995). "Surveying Collections: The importance of Condition Assessment for Preservation Management". Washington, D.C.: Journal of Librarianship and Information Science 27, no. 4. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          Harris, Carolyn (2000). "Selection for Preservation". In Banks, Paul N.; Pilette, Roberta (eds.). Preservation: Issues and Planning. Chicago: American Library Association. pp.&nbsp;206–224. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-585-37626-4. OCLC&nbsp;48139650.  
        ^ 
          "Best Archives and Preservation Programs". US News &amp; World Report. 2017.  
        ^ https://mellon.org/programs/scholarly-communications/preservation-and-conservation/  
        ^ 
          "Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property". University of Texas School of Information. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "NEDCC". Northeast Document Conservation Center. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Preservation Education Directory 10th Edition". ALCTS. 12 March 2012. Retrieved 2015-03-26.  
        ^ 
          "American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works". American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works. Archived from the original on 2015-05-08. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Amigos Library Services Preservation Service". Amigos Library Services Preservation Service. Archived from the original on 2007-04-04. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Association for Recorded Sound Collections". Association for Recorded Sound Collections. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Association of Moving Image Archivists". Association of Moving Image Archivists. Retrieved 2013-05-22.  
        ^ 
          "Buffalo State Art Conservation Department". Buffalo State University. Archived from the original on 2007-04-27. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Campbell Center for Historic Preservation Studies". Campbell Center for Historic Preservation Studies. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "George Eastman House". George Eastman House. Archived from the original on 2007-05-09. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "International Federation of Film Archives". www.fiafnet.org. Retrieved 2018-04-23.  
        ^ 
          "The Kilgarlin Center for Preservation of the Cultural Record". The Kilgarlin Center for Preservation of the Cultural Record. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Institute of Fine Arts". www.nyu.edu. New York University. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "North Bennet Street School". North Bennet Street School. Archived from the original on 2007-05-10. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Art Conservation Program". www.queensu.ca. Queen's University. Archived from the original on 2007-03-31. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Winterthur Art Conservation Program". www.udel.edu. University of Delaware. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "Preservation Programs at the National Archives". www.archives.gov. The National Archives and Records Administration of the United States of America. Archived from the original on 2007-06-09. Retrieved 2007-05-11.  
        ^ 
          "The Archival Paradigm—The Genesis and Rationales of Archival Principles and Practices". www.clir.org. Council on Library and Information Resources. Retrieved 2007-04-03.  
        ^ 
          Ritzenthaler, Mary Lynn (1993). Preserving Archives and Manuscripts. Chicago: Society of American Archivists. ISBN&nbsp;9780931828942.  
        ^ Gacek, Adam. "The Use of Kabikaj in Arabic Manuscripts." Manuscripts of the Middle East. Volume I, 1986. Page 49.  
        ^ Kaschins, Elizabeth and Jane Kemp. "Saint Jerome, the Patron Saint of Librarians." Library Journal. September 1, 1988, pages 135-136.  
        ^ See: http://www.weito.com/ accessed July 10, 2010  
        ^ 
          Stevens, Rolland E. (October 1968). "The Library". The Journal of Higher Education. 39 (7): 407–409. doi:10.2307/1980093. JSTOR&nbsp;1980093.  
        ^ 
          "A Brief History of Preservation and Conservation at the Library of Congress - Reports - About Us (Preservation, Library of Congress)". www.loc.gov. Retrieved 2019-05-03.  
        ^ Association for Library Collections &amp; Technical Services Archived 2007-12-14 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ 
          "U.S. Code: Title 17,108. Limitations on exclusive rights: Reproduction by libraries and archives". www.law.cornell.edu]. Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 2008-07-25.  
        ^ a b 
          "AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice". Archived from the original on March 4, 2000.  
        ^ 
          "Rightful Owners". Nature. 440 (6): 716. 2006. Bibcode:2006Natur.440R.716.. doi:10.1038/440716b. PMID&nbsp;16598213.  
        ^ Cloonan, Michele V. "The Moral Imperative to Preserve", "Library Trends", Winter 2007. Retrieved on 2008-04-25.  
        ^ 
          Cooper, Amy (2002). "Issues in Native American Archives". Collection Management. 27 (2): 43–54. doi:10.1300/j105v27n02_05. S2CID&nbsp;61097414.  
        ^ See Robert B. Townsend, 
          "Google Books: What's Not to Like?". www.historians.org. American Historical Association. Retrieved 2008-07-27.  
        ^ See also Paul Duguid, 
          "Inheritance and loss? A brief survey of Google Books". First Monday. Retrieved 2008-07-27.  
        ^ Tanselle, G.T. (1998). Texts and artifacts in the electronic era. 21stC, 3.2.   
        ^ 
          "Statement on the Significance of Primary Records". www.mla.org. Modern Language Association. Archived from the original on 2008-07-01. Retrieved 2008-07-27.  
        ^ 
          Ross, Seamus; Gow, Ann (1999). Digital archaeology? Rescuing Neglected or Damaged Data Resources (PDF). Bristol &amp; London: British Library and Joint Information Systems Committee. ISBN&nbsp;1-900508-51-6.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Maxwell, Nancy Kalikow (2006). Sacred Stacks: The Higher Purpose of Libraries and Librarianship. Chicago: American Library Association. ISBN&nbsp;0-8389-0917-5.  
       
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Preservation (library and archival science) at Wikimedia Commons
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Cultural heritage and historic preservation
           
         
         
          Topics and issues
          
            
            
             Agents of deterioration 
             Archival processing 
             Archaeological science 
             Archaeology 
             Archive 
             Bioarchaeology 
             Calendar (archive) 
             Conservation and restoration of cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration of immovable cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration of movable cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration training 
             Conservation science (cultural property) 
             Collecting 
             Collection (museum) 
             Collection catalog 
             Collections maintenance 
             Collections management 
             Collections management system 
             Cultural heritage 
             Cultural heritage management 
             Cultural property 
             Cultural property documentation 
             Cultural property exhibition 
             Cultural property imaging 
             Cultural property storage 
             Cultural resources management 
             Database preservation 
             Deaccessioning (museum) 
             Digital library 
             Digital photograph restoration 
             Digital preservation 
             Disaster preparedness (cultural property) 
             Film preservation 
             Finding aid 
             Fonds 
             Found in collection 
             Heritage asset 
             Heritage science 
             Inherent vice 
             Intangible cultural heritage 
             Integrated pest management (cultural property) 
             Inventory (library and archive) 
             Inventory (museum) 
             Media preservation 
             Mold control and prevention (library and archive) 
             Museum 
             Optical media preservation 
             Preservation (library and archive) 
             Preservation metadata 
             Preservation survey 
             Provenance 
             Repatriation 
             Sustainable preservation 
             Web archiving
             
           
         
         
          Roles and expertise
          
            
            
             Archivist 
             Art dealer 
             Art handler 
             Auctioneer 
             Collection manager 
             Conservator-restorer 
             Conservation scientist 
             Conservation technician 
             Curator 
             Exhibition designer 
             Mount maker 
             Objects conservator 
             Paintings conservator 
             Photograph conservator 
             Preservationist 
             Registrar (cultural property) 
             Textile conservator
             
           
         
         
          Methods and techniques
          
            
            
             Aging (artwork) 
             Anastylosis 
             Arrested decay 
             Cradling (paintings) 
             Cultural property radiography 
             Detachment of wall paintings 
             Desmet method 
             Display case 
             Digital repository audit method based on risk assessment 
             Historic paint analysis 
             Inpainting 
             Kintsugi 
             Leafcasting 
             Lining of paintings 
             Mass deacidification 
             Overpainting 
             Paleo-inspiration 
             Paper splitting 
             Reconstruction (architecture) 
             Rissverklebung 
             Textile stabilization 
             Transfer of panel paintings 
             UVC-based preservation 
             VisualAudio
             
           
         
         
          Conservation and restoration of immovable  cultural property by item type
          
            
            
             Archaeological sites 
             Frescos 
             Heritage railways 
             Historic gardens 
             Outdoor artworks 
             Outdoor bronze objects 
             Outdoor murals
             
           
         
         
          Conservation and restoration of movable  cultural property by item type
          
            
            
             Aircraft 
             Ancient Greek pottery 
             Bone, horn, and antler objects 
             Books, manuscripts, documents and ephemera 
             Ceramic objects 
             Clocks 
             Copper-based objects 
             Feathers 
             Film 
             Flags and banners 
             Fur objects 
             Glass objects 
             Herbaria 
             Human remains 
             Illuminated manuscripts 
             Insect specimens 
             Iron and steel objects 
             Ivory objects 
             Judaica 
             Lacquerware 
             Leather objects 
             Lighthouses 
             Metals 
             Musical instruments 
             Neon objects 
             New media art 
             Paintings 
             Painting frames 
             Panel paintings 
             Papyrus 
             Parchment 
             Performance art 
             Photographs 
             Photographic plates 
             Plastic objects 
             Rail vehicles 
             Road vehicles 
             Shipwreck artifacts 
             Silver objects 
             South Asian household shrines 
             Stained glass 
             Taxidermy 
             Textiles 
             Tibetan thangkas 
             Time-based media art 
             Totem poles 
             Vinyl discs 
             Woodblock prints 
             Wooden artifacts 
             Wooden furniture
             
           
         
         
          Intangible cultural heritage preservation
          
            
            
             Ancient music 
             Applied folklore 
             Dance notation 
             Early music 
             Endangered language 
             Ethnochoreology 
             Ethnomusicology 
             Ethnopoetics 
             Family folklore 
             Folklore 
             Folk art 
             Folk dance 
             Folk etymology 
             Folk instrument 
             Folk medicine 
             Folk music 
             Folk process 
             Folk play 
             Foodways 
             Folklore studies 
             Heritage language 
             Heritage language learning 
             Indigenous intellectual property 
             Indigenous culture 
             Indigenous language 
             Language death 
             Language preservation 
             Language revitalization 
             Living history 
             Oral history preservation 
             Preservation of meaning 
             Primitive music 
             Tradition preservation 
             Traditional knowledge
             
           
         
         
          Notableprojects
          
            
            
             Conservation issues of Pompeii and Herculaneum 
             Conservation-restoration of Ecce Homo by Elías García Martínez 
             Conservation-restoration of The Gross Clinic by Thomas Eakins 
             Conservation-restoration of Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper 
             Pompeian frescoes 
             Conservation-restoration of the Shroud of Turin 
             Conservation-restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes 
             Conservation-restoration of the Statue of Liberty 
             Conservation-restoration of the H.L. Hunley 
             Conservation response to flood of Arno, Florence 
             Modern and Contemporary Art Research Initiative 
             Preservation Metadata: Implementation Strategies
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Book collecting
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Bibliophilia 
             Bibliomania 
              
               tsundoku
               
             Bookbreaking 
             The Book Collector journal 
             The Bookworm (painting) 
             First edition 
             Limited edition 
             Marginalia 
             Preservation 
              
               slipcase 
               solander box
               
             Used book 
              
               conditions
              
             
           
          
           
            
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Books
           
         
         
          Production
          
            
            
             Binding 
             Covers 
              
               dust jackets
               
             Design 
             Editing 
             Illustration 
              
               Illuminated manuscripts
               
             Printing 
              
               edition 
               history 
               incunabula 
               instant book 
               limited edition
               
             Publishing 
              
               advance copy 
               hardcover 
               paperback
               
             Size 
             Typesetting 
             Volume (bibliography) 
             Collection (publishing) 
             Book series
             
           
         
         
          Consumption
          
            
            
             Awards 
             Bestsellers 
             Bibliography 
             Bibliomania (tsundoku) 
             Bibliophilia 
             Bibliotherapy 
             Bookmarks 
             Bookselling 
              
               blurbs 
               book towns 
               used
               
             Censorship 
             Clubs 
             Collecting 
             Digitizing 
             Bookworm (insect) 
             Furniture 
              
               bookcases 
               bookends
               
             Library 
             Print culture 
             Reading 
              
               literacy
               
             Reviews
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             Brazil 
             France 
             Germany 
             Italy 
             Japan 
             Netherlands 
             Pakistan 
             Spain 
             United Kingdom 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Genres 
              
               fictional 
               miniature 
               pop-up 
               textbook
               
             Grimoire 
             Formats 
              
               audiobooks 
               Ebooks
               
             Coffee table book
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Book packaging 
             Book swapping 
             History of books 
             Outline 
             Intellectual property 
             ISBN 
             List of best-selling books 
             Conservation and restoration 
             Preservation 
             Dog ears 
             World Book Day 
             World Book Capital
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Outline 
              Category 
              Portal
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Preservation_(library_and_archive)&amp;oldid=1058643075"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Preservation (library and archival science)
       Collections care
       Archival science
       Conservation and restoration of cultural heritage
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with limited geographic scope from May 2018
       Commons category link from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Français
       Magyar
       Português
       Русский
       粵語
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 4 December 2021, at 21:01&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
