
 
  
   
  Information engineering - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information engineering 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
      
       This article is about the software engineering approach. For the engineering discipline, see Information engineering (field).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Information engineering"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Information engineering (IE), also known as information technology engineering (ITE), information engineering methodology (IEM) or data engineering, is a software engineering approach to designing and developing information systems. 
      A data engineer is someone who creates big data ETL pipelines, and makes it possible to take huge amounts of data and translate it into insights. They are focused on the production readiness of data and things like formats, resilience, scaling, and security. Data engineers usually hail from a software engineering background and are proficient in programming languages like Java, Python and Scala.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 The phases of information engineering 
        3 Software tools 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        7 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Information technology engineering used to be known more commonly as information engineering; this changed in the early 21st century, and information engineering took on a new meaning. 
      Information technology engineering has a somewhat checkered history that follows two very distinct threads. It originated in Australia between 1976 and 1980, and appears first in the literature in a series of Six InDepth articles by the same name published by US Computerworld in May – June 1981. Information technology engineering first provided data analysis and database design techniques that could be used by database administrators (DBAs) and by systems analysts to develop database designs and systems based upon an understanding of the operational processing needs of organizations for the 1980s. 
      Clive Finkelstein is acknowledged as the "Father" of information technology engineering, having developed its concepts from 1976 to 1980 based on original work carried out by him to bridge from strategic business planning to information systems. He wrote the first publication on information technology engineering: a series of six in depth articles of the same name published by US Computerworld in May – June 1981. He also co-authored with James Martin the influential Savant Institute Report titled: "Information Engineering", published in Nov 1981. The Finkelstein thread evolved from 1976 as the business driven variant of ITE. The Martin thread evolved into the data processing-driven (DP) variant of ITE. From 1983 till 1986 ITE evolved further into a stronger business-driven variant of ITE, which was intended to address a rapidly changing business environment. The then technical director, Charles M. Richter, from 1983 to 1987, guided by Clive Finkelstein, played a significant role by revamping the ITE methodology as well as helping to design the ITE software product (user-data) which helped automate the ITE methodology, opening the way to next generation Information Architecture.  
      The phases of information engineering 
      
       
        Strategic business planning
        
       
        Business objectives that executives set for what's to come are characterized in key business plans, with their more noteworthy definition in tactical business plans and implementation in operational business plans. Most businesses today recognize the fundamental need to grow a business plan that follows this strategy. It is often difficult to implement these plans because of the lack of transparency at the tactical and operational degrees of organizations. This kind of planning requires feedback to allow for early correction of problems that are due to miscommunication and misinterpretation of their business plan.
        
       
        Data modelling
        
       
        The ideal basis for data models is to be based on directions made by management for the future of the business. These directions are defined within business plans. Data models can provide a clear insight into future business needs, when business plans become unavailable or out of date. Data models can be developed from any statement of a policy, goal, objective, or strategy for a business and its needs. Data that has been consistently updated over time can be useful within a business to see how things have changed and how the needs of the business are different going forward.
        
       
        Process modelling
        
       
        Process modelling is similar to data modelling in the sense that it is taking a broad look at the processes a business has required outlined by its business plan. Using an information engineering approach, processes can be linked to data and needs, to get a better sense of why the process exists and how it must be carried out. This allows for a business to get an overview of what it is currently doing, why it is doing the things it is doing, the importance of each thing, and how these things are being done.
        
       
        Systems design and implementation
        
       
        The fourth and last phase of information engineering is systems design and implementation. After setting a business plan, data models are used to create process models, which are then used to design systems so they are ready for implementation. This phase is the finishing phase. The systems design and implementation phase takes what has been created by the previous three phases of information engineering and wraps it all into one final product, so that it is available to be implemented. This is where businesses can see the culmination of their information engineering phases and efforts. 
       
       
      Software tools 
      There are several tools supporting information technology engineering such as Bachman's Data Analyst, Excelerator, and more.  
      See also 
      
       Information technology 
       Software engineering 
       Computer science
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Tamir, Mike; Miller, Steven; Gagliardi, Alessandro (December 11, 2015). "The Data Engineer". Rochester, NY. doi:10.2139/ssrn.2762013. S2CID&nbsp;113342650. SSRN&nbsp;2762013. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          "Data Engineer vs. Data Scientist". Springboard Blog. February 7, 2019. Retrieved March 14, 2021.  
        ^ "Information engineering," part 3, part 4, part 5, Part 6" by Clive Finkelstein. In Computerworld, In depths, appendix. May 25 – June 15, 1981.  
        ^ Christopher Allen, Simon Chatwin, Catherine Creary (2003). Introduction to Relational Databases and SQL Programming.  
        ^ Terry Halpin, Tony Morgan (2010). Information Modeling and Relational Databases. p. 343  
        ^ 
          Finkelstein, Clive. What are The Phases of Information Engineering.  
        ^ 
          "Ie (information Engineering)". Gartner. Retrieved December 13, 2019.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        John Hares (1992). "Information engineering for the Advanced Practitioner", Wiley. 
        Clive Finkelstein (1989). An Introduction to Information engineering&nbsp;: From Strategic Planning to Information Systems. Sydney: Addison-Wesley. 
        Clive Finkelstein (1992). "Information Engineering: Strategic Systems Development". Sydney: Addison-Wesley. 
        Ian Macdonald (1986). "Information engineering". in: Information Systems Design Methodologies. T.W. Olle et al. (ed.). North-Holland. 
        Ian Macdonald (1988). "Automating the Information engineering methodology with the Information engineering Facility". In: Computerized Assistance during the Information Systems Life Cycle. T.W. Olle et al. (ed.). North-Holland. 
        James Martin and Clive Finkelstein. (1981). Information engineering. Technical Report (2 volumes), Savant Institute, Carnforth, Lancs, UK. 
        James Martin (1989). Information engineering. (3 volumes), Prentice-Hall Inc. 
        Clive Finkelstein (2006) "Enterprise Architecture for Integration: Rapid Delivery Methods and Technologies". First Edition, Artech House, Norwood MA in hardcover. 
        Clive Finkelstein (2011) "Enterprise Architecture for Integration: Rapid Delivery Methods and Technologies". Second Edition in PDF at www.ies.aust.com and as an ibook on the Apple iPad and ebook on the Amazon Kindle.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Information Engineering.
         
       
       
      
       The Complex Method IEM 
       Rapid Application Development 
       Enterprise Engineering and Rapid Delivery of Enterprise Architecture
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_engineering&amp;oldid=1068959475"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Software development process
       Information systems
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Use mdy dates from August 2021
       Articles needing additional references from July 2015
       All articles needing additional references
       Commons category link is locally defined
       AC with 0 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 January 2022, at 00:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
