
 
  
   
  Analysis - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Analysis 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Process of understanding a complex topic or substance
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Analysis (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Adriaen van Ostade, "Analysis" (1666)
        
       
       
      Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts in order to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), though analysis as a formal concept is a relatively recent development. 
      The word comes from the Ancient Greek ἀνάλυσις (analysis, "a breaking-up" or "an untying;" from ana- "up, throughout" and lysis "a loosening"). From it also comes the word's plural, analyses. 
      As a formal concept, the method has variously been ascribed to Alhazen, René Descartes (Discourse on the Method), and Galileo Galilei. It has also been ascribed to Isaac Newton, in the form of a practical method of physical discovery (which he did not name).  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Applications 
          
          1.1 Science 
            
            1.1.1 Isotopes 
             
          1.2 Business 
          1.3 Computer science 
          1.4 Economics 
          1.5 Engineering 
          1.6 Intelligence 
          1.7 Linguistics 
          1.8 Literature 
          1.9 Mathematics 
          1.10 Music 
          1.11 Philosophy 
          1.12 Psychotherapy 
          1.13 Policy 
          1.14 Signal processing 
          1.15 Statistics 
          1.16 Other 
           
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Applications 
      Science 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A clinical chemistry analyzer
        
       
       
      
      
       See also: Analytical chemistry and List of chemical analysis methods
       
      The field of chemistry uses analysis in three ways: to identify the components of a particular chemical compound (qualitative analysis), to identify the proportions of components in a mixture (quantitative analysis), and to break down chemical processes and examine chemical reactions between elements of matter. For an example of its use, analysis of the concentration of elements is important in managing a nuclear reactor, so nuclear scientists will analyze neutron activation to develop discrete measurements within vast samples. A matrix can have a considerable effect on the way a chemical analysis is conducted and the quality of its results. Analysis can be done manually or with a device. 
      Types of Analysis: 
      A) Qualitative Analysis: It is concerned with which components are in a given sample or compound. 
      Example: Precipitation reaction 
      B) Quantitative Analysis: It is to determine the quantity of individual component present in a given sample or compound. 
      Example: To find concentration by uv-spectrophotometer.  
      Isotopes 
      
      
       See also: Isotope analysis and Isotope geochemistry
       
      Chemists can use isotope analysis to assist analysts with issues in anthropology, archeology, food chemistry, forensics, geology, and a host of other questions of physical science. Analysts can discern the origins of natural and man-made isotopes in the study of environmental radioactivity.  
      Business 
      
       Financial statement analysis&nbsp;– the analysis of the accounts and the economic prospects of a firm 
       Fundamental analysis&nbsp;– a stock valuation method that uses financial analysis 
       Gap analysis – involves the comparison of actual performance with potential or desired performance of an organization 
       Business analysis – involves identifying the needs and determining the solutions to business problems 
       Price analysis – involves the breakdown of a price to a unit figure 
       Market analysis – consists of suppliers and customers, and price is determined by the interaction of supply and demand 
       Technical analysis – the study of price action in securities markets in order to forecast future prices 
       Opportunity analysis – consists of customers trends within the industry, customer demand and experience determine purchasing behavior
       
      Computer science 
      
       Requirements analysis – encompasses those tasks that go into determining the needs or conditions to meet for a new or altered product, taking account of the possibly conflicting requirements of the various stakeholders, such as beneficiaries or users. 
       Competitive analysis (online algorithm) – shows how online algorithms perform and demonstrates the power of randomization in algorithms 
       Lexical analysis – the process of processing an input sequence of characters and producing as output a sequence of symbols 
       Object-oriented analysis and design&nbsp;– à la Booch 
       Program analysis (computer science)&nbsp;– the process of automatically analysing the behavior of computer programs 
       Semantic analysis (computer science)&nbsp;– a pass by a compiler that adds semantical information to the parse tree and performs certain checks 
       Static code analysis&nbsp;– the analysis of computer software that is performed without actually executing programs built from that 
       Structured systems analysis and design methodology&nbsp;– à la Yourdon 
       Syntax analysis&nbsp;– a process in compilers that recognizes the structure of programming languages, also known as parsing 
       Worst-case execution time&nbsp;– determines the longest time that a piece of software can take to run
       
      Economics 
      
       Agroecosystem analysis 
       Input–output model if applied to a region, is called Regional Impact Multiplier System
       
      Engineering 
      
      
       See also: Engineering analysis and Systems analysis
       
      Analysts in the field of engineering look at requirements, structures, mechanisms, systems and dimensions. Electrical engineers analyse systems in electronics. Life cycles and system failures are broken down and studied by engineers. It is also looking at different factors incorporated within the design.  
      Intelligence 
      
      
       See also: Intelligence analysis
       
      The field of intelligence employs analysts to break down and understand a wide array of questions. Intelligence agencies may use heuristics, inductive and deductive reasoning, social network analysis, dynamic network analysis, link analysis, and brainstorming to sort through problems they face. Military intelligence may explore issues through the use of game theory, Red Teaming, and wargaming. Signals intelligence applies cryptanalysis and frequency analysis to break codes and ciphers. Business intelligence applies theories of competitive intelligence analysis and competitor analysis to resolve questions in the marketplace. Law enforcement intelligence applies a number of theories in crime analysis.  
      Linguistics 
      
      
       See also: Linguistics
       
      Linguistics explores individual languages and language in general. It breaks language down and analyses its component parts: theory, sounds and their meaning, utterance usage, word origins, the history of words, the meaning of words and word combinations, sentence construction, basic construction beyond the sentence level, stylistics, and conversation. It examines the above using statistics and modeling, and semantics. It analyses language in context of anthropology, biology, evolution, geography, history, neurology, psychology, and sociology. It also takes the applied approach, looking at individual language development and clinical issues.  
      Literature 
      Literary criticism is the analysis of literature. The focus can be as diverse as the analysis of Homer or Freud. While not all literary-critical methods are primarily analytical in nature, the main approach to the teaching of literature in the west since the mid-twentieth century, literary formal analysis or close reading, is. This method, rooted in the academic movement labelled The New Criticism, approaches texts – chiefly short poems such as sonnets, which by virtue of their small size and significant complexity lend themselves well to this type of analysis – as units of discourse that can be understood in themselves, without reference to biographical or historical frameworks. This method of analysis breaks up the text linguistically in a study of prosody (the formal analysis of meter) and phonic effects such as alliteration and rhyme, and cognitively in examination of the interplay of syntactic structures, figurative language, and other elements of the poem that work to produce its larger effects.  
      Mathematics 
      
      
       Main article: Mathematical analysis
       
      Modern mathematical analysis is the study of infinite processes. It is the branch of mathematics that includes calculus. It can be applied in the study of classical concepts of mathematics, such as real numbers, complex variables, trigonometric functions, and algorithms, or of non-classical concepts like constructivism, harmonics, infinity, and vectors. 
      Florian Cajori explains in A History of Mathematics (1893) the difference between modern and ancient mathematical analysis, as distinct from logical analysis, as follows:  
       
       The terms synthesis and analysis are used in mathematics in a more special sense than in logic. In ancient mathematics they had a different meaning from what they now have. The oldest definition of mathematical analysis as opposed to synthesis is that given in  Euclid, XIII. 5, which in all probability was framed by Eudoxus: "Analysis is the obtaining of the thing sought by assuming it and so reasoning up to an admitted truth; synthesis is the obtaining of the thing sought by reasoning up to the inference and proof of it."  
       
       
       The analytic method is not conclusive, unless all operations involved in it are known to be reversible. To remove all doubt, the Greeks, as a rule, added to the analytic process a synthetic one, consisting of a reversion of all operations occurring in the analysis. Thus the aim of analysis was to aid in the discovery of synthetic proofs or solutions.  
       
      James Gow uses a similar argument as Cajori, with the following clarification, in his A Short History of Greek Mathematics (1884):  
       
       The synthetic proof proceeds by shewing that the proposed new truth involves certain admitted truths. An analytic proof begins by an assumption, upon which a synthetic reasoning is founded. The Greeks distinguished theoretic from problematic analysis. A theoretic analysis is of the following kind. To prove that A is B, assume first that A is B. If so, then, since B is C and C is D and D is E, therefore A is E. If this be known a falsity, A is not B. But if this be a known truth and all the intermediate propositions be convertible, then the reverse process, A is E, E is D, D is C, C is B, therefore A is B, constitutes a synthetic proof of the original theorem. Problematic analysis is applied in all cases where it is proposed to construct a figure which is assumed to satisfy a given condition. The problem is then converted into some theorem which is involved in the condition and which is proved synthetically, and the steps of this synthetic proof taken backwards are a synthetic solution of the problem.  
       
      Music 
      
       Musical analysis&nbsp;– a process attempting to answer the question "How does this music work?" 
        
         Musical Analysis is a study of how the composers use the notes together to compose music. Those studying music will find differences with each composer's musical analysis, which differs depending on the culture and history of music studied. An analysis of music is meant to simplify the music for you.
         
       Schenkerian analysis 
        
         Schenkerian analysis is a collection of music analysis that focuses on the production of the graphic representation. This includes both analytical procedure as well as the notational style. Simply put, it analyzes tonal music which includes all chords and tones within a composition.
        
       
      Philosophy 
      
       Philosophical analysis&nbsp;– a general term for the techniques used by philosophers 
        
         Philosophical analysis refers to the clarification and composition of words put together and the entailed meaning behind them. Philosophical analysis dives deeper into the meaning of words and seeks to clarify that meaning by contrasting the various definitions. It is the study of reality, justification of claims, and the analysis of various concepts. Branches of philosophy include logic, justification, metaphysics, values and ethics. If questions can be answered empirically, meaning it can be answered by using the senses, then it is not considered philosophical. Non-philosophical questions also include events that happened in the past, or questions science or mathematics can answer.
         
       Analysis is the name of a prominent journal in philosophy.
       
      Psychotherapy 
      
       Psychoanalysis&nbsp;– seeks to elucidate connections among unconscious components of patients' mental processes 
       Transactional analysis 
        
         Transactional analysis is used by therapists to try to gain a better understanding of the unconscious. It focuses on understanding and intervening human behavior.
        
       
      Policy 
      
       Policy analysis&nbsp;– The use of statistical data to predict the effects of policy decisions made by governments and agencies 
        
         Policy analysis includes a systematic process to find the most efficient and effective option to address the current situation.
         
       Qualitative analysis – The use of anecdotal evidence to predict the effects of policy decisions or, more generally, influence policy decisions
       
      Signal processing 
      
       Finite element analysis&nbsp;– a computer simulation technique used in engineering analysis 
       Independent component analysis 
       Link quality analysis&nbsp;– the analysis of signal quality 
       Path quality analysis 
       Fourier analysis
       
      Statistics 
      In statistics, the term analysis may refer to any method used for data analysis. Among the many such methods, some are:  
      
       Analysis of variance (ANOVA)&nbsp;– a collection of statistical models and their associated procedures which compare means by splitting the overall observed variance into different parts 
       Boolean analysis&nbsp;– a method to find deterministic dependencies between variables in a sample, mostly used in exploratory data analysis 
       Cluster analysis&nbsp;– techniques for finding groups (called clusters), based on some measure of proximity or similarity 
       Factor analysis&nbsp;– a method to construct models describing a data set of observed variables in terms of a smaller set of unobserved variables (called factors) 
       Meta-analysis&nbsp;– combines the results of several studies that address a set of related research hypotheses 
       Multivariate analysis&nbsp;– analysis of data involving several variables, such as by factor analysis, regression analysis, or principal component analysis 
       Principal component analysis&nbsp;– transformation of a sample of correlated variables into uncorrelated variables (called principal components), mostly used in exploratory data analysis 
       Regression analysis&nbsp;– techniques for analysing the relationships between several predictive variables and one or more outcomes in the data 
       Scale analysis (statistics)&nbsp;– methods to analyse survey data by scoring responses on a numeric scale 
       Sensitivity analysis&nbsp;– the study of how the variation in the output of a model depends on variations in the inputs 
       Sequential analysis&nbsp;– evaluation of sampled data as it is collected, until the criterion of a stopping rule is met 
       Spatial analysis&nbsp;– the study of entities using geometric or geographic properties 
       Time-series analysis&nbsp;– methods that attempt to understand a sequence of data points spaced apart at uniform time intervals
       
      Other 
      
       Aura analysis&nbsp;– a technique in which supporters of the method claim that the body's aura, or energy field is analysed 
       Bowling analysis&nbsp;– Analysis of the performance of cricket players 
       Lithic analysis&nbsp;– the analysis of stone tools using basic scientific techniques 
        
         Lithic analysis is most often used by archeologists in determining which types of tools were used at a given time period pertaining to current artifacts discovered.
         
       Protocol analysis – a means for extracting persons' thoughts while they are performing a task
       
      See also 
      
       Formal analysis 
       Methodology 
       Scientific method
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Beaney, Michael (Summer 2012). "Analysis". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Retrieved 23 May 2012.  
         ^ 
           Douglas Harper (2001–2012). "analysis (n.)". ONLINE ETYMOLOGY DICTIONARY. Douglas Harper. Retrieved 23 May 2012.  
         ^ 
           O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Abu Ali al-Hasan ibn al-Haytham", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews  
         ^ a b 
           Warfield, Scott (November 2014). "Lady in the Dark: Biography of a Musical. By bruce d. mcclung. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. - Oklahoma!: The Making of an American Musical. By Tim Carter. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2007. - South Pacific: Paradise Rewritten. By Jim Lovensheimer. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010. - Wicked: A Musical Biography. By Paul R. Laird. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2011". Journal of the Society for American Music. 8 (4): 587–596. doi:10.1017/s1752196314000443. ISSN&nbsp;1752-1963. S2CID&nbsp;232401945.  
         ^ 
           Neumeyer, David (2018). "Guide to Schenkerian Analysis". doi:10.15781/T2D21S443. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ a b 
           Hospers, John (15 April 2013). An Introduction to Philosophical Analysis. doi:10.4324/9780203714454. ISBN&nbsp;9780203714454.  
         ^ 
           Hargaden, Helena; Sills, Charlotte (23 April 2014). Transactional Analysis. doi:10.4324/9781315820279. ISBN&nbsp;9781315820279.  
         ^ 
           "Dye, Dr Christopher", Who's Who, Oxford University Press, 1 December 2012, doi:10.1093/ww/9780199540884.013.256626  
         ^ 
           McCall, Grant (March 2012). "In Memory of George H. Odell". Lithic Technology. 37 (1): 3–4. doi:10.1179/lit.2012.37.1.3. ISSN&nbsp;0197-7261. S2CID&nbsp;108647958.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Analysis.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Analysis
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Look up Analysis&nbsp;or analysis in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       Analysis at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project 
       "Analysis" entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       Analysis at PhilPapers
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Analysis&amp;oldid=1064898372"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Analysis
       Abstraction
       Critical thinking skills
       Emergence
       Empiricism
       Epistemological theories
       Intelligence
       Mathematical modeling
       Metaphysics of mind
       Methodology
       Ontology
       Philosophy of logic
       Rationalism
       Reasoning
       Research methods
       Scientific method
       Theory of mind
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2020
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Use dmy dates from July 2020
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy links
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       Беларуская
       Български
       Bosanski
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Latina
       Lombard
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Português
       Română
       Shqip
       سنڌي
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 January 2022, at 19:24&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
