
 
  
   
  Information - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       For the Danish newspaper, see Dagbladet Information. For the formal criminal charge, see Information (formal criminal charge).
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Information (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       Facts provided or learned about something or someones
       
      
      
       
        
         Communication
        
        
         
          
           
            
           
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Portal
            History
           
           
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
          
           Communication theory 
           Information 
           Semiotics 
           Language 
           Logic 
           Sociology
           
        
        
          Fields
        
        
          
          
           Discourse analysis 
           Linguistics 
           Mass communication 
           Organizational communication 
           Pragmatics 
           Semiotics 
           Sociolinguistics
           
        
        
          Disciplines
        
        
          
          
           Public speaking 
           Discourse 
           Culture 
           Argumentation 
           Persuasion 
           Research 
           Rhetoric
           
        
        
          Categories
        
        
          
          
           Outline
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on Statistics
        
        
         Data visualization
        
        
          Major dimensions
        
        
          
          
           Exploratory data analysis 
           Information design 
           Interactive data visualization 
           Descriptive statistics 
           Inferential statistics 
           Statistical graphics 
           Plot 
           Data analysis 
           Infographic 
           Data science
           
        
        
          Important figures
        
        
          
          
           Tamara Munzner 
           Ben Shneiderman 
           John W. Tukey 
           Edward Tufte 
           Simon Wardley 
           Hans Rosling 
           David McCandless 
           Alexander Osterwalder 
           Ed Hawkins 
           Hadley Wickham 
           Leland Wilkinson 
           Mike Bostock 
           Jeffrey Heer 
           Ihab Ilyas
           
        
        
          Information graphic types
        
        
          
          
           Line chart 
           Bar chart 
           Histogram 
           Scatterplot 
           Boxplot 
           Pareto chart 
           Pie chart 
           Area chart 
           Tree map 
           Bubble chart 
           Stripe graphic 
           Control chart 
           Run chart 
           Stem-and-leaf display 
           Cartogram 
           Small multiple 
           Sparkline 
           Table 
           Marimekko chart
           
        
        
          Related topics
        
        
          
          
           Data 
           Information 
           Big data 
           Database 
           Chartjunk 
           Visual perception 
           Regression analysis 
           Statistical model 
           Misleading graph
           
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Information is processed, organized and structured data. It provides context for data and enables decision making process. For example, a single customer’s sale at a restaurant is data – this becomes information when the business is able to identify the most popular or least popular dish. 
      More technically, information can be thought of as the resolution of uncertainty; it answers the question of "What an entity is" and thus defines both its essence and the nature of its characteristics. The concept of information has different meanings in different contexts. Thus the concept becomes synonymous to notions of constraint, communication, control, data, form, education, knowledge, meaning, understanding, mental stimuli, pattern, perception, proposition, representation, and entropy. 
      Information is associated with data. The difference is that information resolves uncertainty. Data can represent redundant symbols, but approaches information through optimal data compression. 
      Information can be transmitted in time, via data storage, and space, via communication and telecommunication. Information is expressed either as the content of a message or through direct or indirect observation. That which is perceived can be construed as a message in its own right, and in that sense, information is always conveyed as the content of a message. 
      Information can be encoded into various forms for transmission and interpretation (for example, information may be encoded into a sequence of signs, or transmitted via a signal). It can also be encrypted for safe storage and communication. 
      The uncertainty of an event is measured by its probability of occurrence. Uncertainty is inversely proportional to the probability of occurrence. Information theory takes advantage of this fact by concluding that more uncertain events require more information to resolve their uncertainty. The bit is a typical unit of information. It is 'that which reduces uncertainty by half'. Other units such as the nat may be used. For example, the information encoded in one "fair" coin flip is log2(2/1) = 1 bit, and in two fair coin flips is log2(4/1) = 2 bits. A 2011 Science article estimated that 97% of technologically stored information was already in digital bits in 2007, and that the year 2002 was the beginning of the digital age for information storage (with digital storage capacity bypassing analog for the first time).  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 Information theory 
        3 As sensory input 
        4 As representation and complexity 
        5 As an influence that leads to transformation 
        6 Technologically mediated information 
          
          6.1 As of 2007 
          6.2 As of 2020 
           
        7 As records 
        8 Semiotics 
        9 The application of information study 
        10 See also 
        11 References 
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
        
       
      Etymology 
      
      
       See also: History of the word and concept "information"
       
      The English word "information" comes from Middle French enformacion/informacion/information 'a criminal investigation' and its etymon, Latin informatiō(n) 'conception, teaching, creation'. 
      In English, "information" is an uncountable mass noun.  
      Information theory 
      
      
       Main article: Information theory
       
      Information theory is the scientific study of the quantification, storage, and communication of information. The field was fundamentally established by the works of Harry Nyquist and Ralph Hartley in the 1920s, and Claude Shannon in the 1940s. The field is at the intersection of probability theory, statistics, computer science, statistical mechanics, information engineering, and electrical engineering. 
      A key measure in information theory is entropy. Entropy quantifies the amount of uncertainty involved in the value of a random variable or the outcome of a random process. For example, identifying the outcome of a fair coin flip (with two equally likely outcomes) provides less information (lower entropy) than specifying the outcome from a roll of a die (with six equally likely outcomes). Some other important measures in information theory are mutual information, channel capacity, error exponents, and relative entropy. Important sub-fields of information theory include source coding, algorithmic complexity theory, algorithmic information theory, and information-theoretic security. 
      Applications of fundamental topics of information theory include source coding/data compression (e.g. for ZIP files), and channel coding/error detection and correction (e.g. for DSL). Its impact has been crucial to the success of the Voyager missions to deep space, the invention of the compact disc, the feasibility of mobile phones and the development of the Internet. The theory has also found applications in other areas, including statistical inference, cryptography, neurobiology, perception, linguistics, the evolution and function of molecular codes (bioinformatics), thermal physics, quantum computing, black holes, information retrieval, intelligence gathering, plagiarism detection, pattern recognition, anomaly detection and even art creation.  
      As sensory input 
      Often information can be viewed as a type of input to an organism or system. Inputs are of two kinds; some inputs are important to the function of the organism (for example, food) or system (energy) by themselves. In his book Sensory Ecology biophysicist David B. Dusenbery called these causal inputs. Other inputs (information) are important only because they are associated with causal inputs and can be used to predict the occurrence of a causal input at a later time (and perhaps another place). Some information is important because of association with other information but eventually there must be a connection to a causal input. 
      In practice, information is usually carried by weak stimuli that must be detected by specialized sensory systems and amplified by energy inputs before they can be functional to the organism or system. For example, light is mainly (but not only, e.g. plants can grow in the direction of the lightsource) a causal input to plants but for animals it only provides information. The colored light reflected from a flower is too weak for photosynthesis but the visual system of the bee detects it and the bee's nervous system uses the information to guide the bee to the flower, where the bee often finds nectar or pollen, which are causal inputs, serving a nutritional function.  
      As representation and complexity 
      The cognitive scientist and applied mathematician Ronaldo Vigo argues that information is a concept that requires at least two related entities to make quantitative sense. These are, any dimensionally defined category of objects S, and any of its subsets R. R, in essence, is a representation of S, or, in other words, conveys representational (and hence, conceptual) information about S. Vigo then defines the amount of information that R conveys about S as the rate of change in the complexity of S whenever the objects in R are removed from S. Under "Vigo information", pattern, invariance, complexity, representation, and information—five fundamental constructs of universal science—are unified under a novel mathematical framework. Among other things, the framework aims to overcome the limitations of Shannon-Weaver information when attempting to characterize and measure subjective information.  
      As an influence that leads to transformation 
      Information is any type of pattern that influences the formation or transformation of other patterns. In this sense, there is no need for a conscious mind to perceive, much less appreciate, the pattern. Consider, for example, DNA. The sequence of nucleotides is a pattern that influences the formation and development of an organism without any need for a conscious mind. One might argue though that for a human to consciously define a pattern, for example a nucleotide, naturally involves conscious information processing. 
      Systems theory at times seems to refer to information in this sense, assuming information does not necessarily involve any conscious mind, and patterns circulating (due to feedback) in the system can be called information. In other words, it can be said that information in this sense is something potentially perceived as representation, though not created or presented for that purpose. For example, Gregory Bateson defines "information" as a "difference that makes a difference". 
      If, however, the premise of "influence" implies that information has been perceived by a conscious mind and also interpreted by it, the specific context associated with this interpretation may cause the transformation of the information into knowledge. Complex definitions of both "information" and "knowledge" make such semantic and logical analysis difficult, but the condition of "transformation" is an important point in the study of information as it relates to knowledge, especially in the business discipline of knowledge management. In this practice, tools and processes are used to assist a knowledge worker in performing research and making decisions, including steps such as:  
      
       Review information to effectively derive value and meaning 
       Reference metadata if available 
       Establish relevant context, often from many possible contexts 
       Derive new knowledge from the information 
       Make decisions or recommendations from the resulting knowledge
       
      Stewart (2001) argues that transformation of information into knowledge is critical, lying at the core of value creation and competitive advantage for the modern enterprise. 
      The Danish Dictionary of Information Terms argues that information only provides an answer to a posed question. Whether the answer provides knowledge depends on the informed person. So a generalized definition of the concept should be: "Information" = An answer to a specific question". 
      When Marshall McLuhan speaks of media and their effects on human cultures, he refers to the structure of artifacts that in turn shape our behaviors and mindsets. Also, pheromones are often said to be "information" in this sense.  
      Technologically mediated information 
      
      
       Further information: Information Age
       
      These sections are using measurements of data rather than information as information cannot be directly measured.  
      As of 2007 
      It is estimated that the world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1986 – which is the informational equivalent to less than one 730-MB CD-ROM per person (539 MB per person) – to 295 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007. This is the informational equivalent of almost 61 CD-ROM per person in 2007. 
      The world's combined technological capacity to receive information through one-way broadcast networks was the informational equivalent of 174 newspapers per person per day in 2007. 
      The world's combined effective capacity to exchange information through two-way telecommunication networks was the informational equivalent of 6 newspapers per person per day in 2007. 
      As of 2007, an estimated 90% of all new information is digital, mostly stored on hard drives.  
      As of 2020 
      The total amount of data created, captured, copied, and consumed globally is forecast to increase rapidly, reaching 64.2 zettabytes in 2020. Over the next five years up to 2025, global data creation is projected to grow to more than 180 zettabytes.   
      As records 
      Records are specialized forms of information. Essentially, records are information produced consciously or as by-products of business activities or transactions and retained because of their value. Primarily, their value is as evidence of the activities of the organization but they may also be retained for their informational value. Sound records management ensures that the integrity of records is preserved for as long as they are required. 
      The international standard on records management, ISO 15489, defines records as "information created, received, and maintained as evidence and information by an organization or person, in pursuance of legal obligations or in the transaction of business". The International Committee on Archives (ICA) Committee on electronic records defined a record as, "recorded information produced or received in the initiation, conduct or completion of an institutional or individual activity and that comprises content, context and structure sufficient to provide evidence of the activity". 
      Records may be maintained to retain corporate memory of the organization or to meet legal, fiscal or accountability requirements imposed on the organization. Willis expressed the view that sound management of business records and information delivered "...six key requirements for good corporate governance...transparency; accountability; due process; compliance; meeting statutory and common law requirements; and security of personal and corporate information."  
      Semiotics 
      Michael Buckland has classified "information" in terms of its uses: "information as process", "information as knowledge", and "information as thing". 
      Beynon-Davies explains the multi-faceted concept of information in terms of signs and signal-sign systems. Signs themselves can be considered in terms of four inter-dependent levels, layers or branches of semiotics: pragmatics, semantics, syntax, and empirics. These four layers serve to connect the social world on the one hand with the physical or technical world on the other. 
      Pragmatics is concerned with the purpose of communication. Pragmatics links the issue of signs with the context within which signs are used. The focus of pragmatics is on the intentions of living agents underlying communicative behaviour. In other words, pragmatics link language to action. 
      Semantics is concerned with the meaning of a message conveyed in a communicative act. Semantics considers the content of communication. Semantics is the study of the meaning of signs - the association between signs and behaviour. Semantics can be considered as the study of the link between symbols and their referents or concepts – particularly the way that signs relate to human behavior. 
      Syntax is concerned with the formalism used to represent a message. Syntax as an area studies the form of communication in terms of the logic and grammar of sign systems. Syntax is devoted to the study of the form rather than the content of signs and sign-systems. 
      Nielsen (2008) discusses the relationship between semiotics and information in relation to dictionaries. He introduces the concept of lexicographic information costs and refers to the effort a user of a dictionary must make to first find, and then understand data so that they can generate information. 
      Communication normally exists within the context of some social situation. The social situation sets the context for the intentions conveyed (pragmatics) and the form of communication. In a communicative situation intentions are expressed through messages that comprise collections of inter-related signs taken from a language mutually understood by the agents involved in the communication. Mutual understanding implies that agents involved understand the chosen language in terms of its agreed syntax (syntactics) and semantics. The sender codes the message in the language and sends the message as signals along some communication channel (empirics). The chosen communication channel has inherent properties that determine outcomes such as the speed at which communication can take place, and over what distance.  
      The application of information study 
      The information cycle (addressed as a whole or in its distinct components) is of great concern to information technology, information systems, as well as information science. These fields deal with those processes and techniques pertaining to information capture (through sensors) and generation (through computation, formulation or composition), processing (including encoding, encryption, compression, packaging), transmission (including all telecommunication methods), presentation (including visualization / display methods), storage (such as magnetic or optical, including holographic methods), etc. 
      Information visualization (shortened as InfoVis) depends on the computation and digital representation of data, and assists users in pattern recognition and anomaly detection.  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Partial map of the Internet, with nodes representing IP addresses  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Galactic (including dark) matter distribution in a cubic section of the Universe  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Information embedded in an abstract mathematical object with symmetry breaking nucleus  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Visual representation of a strange attractor, with converted data of its fractal structure  
          
         
       
      Information security (shortened as InfoSec) is the ongoing process of exercising due diligence to protect information, and information systems, from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, destruction, modification, disruption or distribution, through algorithms and procedures focused on monitoring and detection, as well as incident response and repair. 
      Information analysis is the process of inspecting, transforming, and modelling information, by converting raw data into actionable knowledge, in support of the decision-making process. 
      Information quality (shortened as InfoQ) is the potential of a dataset to achieve a specific (scientific or practical) goal using a given empirical analysis method. 
      Information communication represents the convergence of informatics, telecommunication and audio-visual media &amp; content.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Abstraction 
        Accuracy and precision 
        Anti-information reduces certainty 
        Classified information 
        Complex adaptive system 
        Complex system 
        Cybernetics 
        Data storage device#Recording media 
        Engram 
        Exformation 
        Free Information Infrastructure 
        Freedom of information 
        Information and communication technologies 
        Information architecture 
        Information broker 
        Information continuum 
        Informatics 
        Information ecology 
        Information engineering 
        Information geometry 
        Information inequity 
        Information infrastructure 
        Information management 
        Information mapping 
        Information metabolism 
        Information overload 
        Information processor 
        Information science 
        Information sensitivity 
        Information superhighway 
        Information technology 
        Information theory 
        Information quality (InfoQ) 
        Information warfare 
        Infosphere 
        Internet forum 
        Lexicographic information cost 
        Library science 
        Meme 
        Philosophy of information 
        Propaganda model 
        Quantum information 
        Receiver operating characteristic 
        Satisficing
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "What Is The Difference Between Data And Information?". BYJUS. Retrieved 5 August 2021.  
         ^ 
           Luciano Floridi (2010). Information - A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-160954-1.  
         ^ a b c 
           "World_info_capacity_animation". YouTube. 11 June 2011. Archived from the original on 21 December 2021. Retrieved 1 May 2017.  
         ^ DT&amp;SC 4-5: Information Theory Primer, 2015, University of California, Online Course, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9qanHTredVE&amp;list=PLtjBSCvWCU3rNm46D3R85efM0hrzjuAIg&amp;index=42  
         ^ a b c 
           Hilbert, Martin; López, Priscila (2011). "The World's Technological Capacity to Store, Communicate, and Compute Information". Science. 332 (6025): 60–65. Bibcode:2011Sci...332...60H. doi:10.1126/science.1200970. PMID&nbsp;21310967. S2CID&nbsp;206531385. Free access to the article at martinhilbert.net/WorldInfoCapacity.html  
         ^ Oxford English Dictionary, Third Edition, 2009, full text  
         ^ Burnham, K. P. and Anderson D. R. (2002) Model Selection and Multimodel Inference: A Practical Information-Theoretic Approach, Second Edition (Springer Science, New York) 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0-387-95364-9.  
         ^ 
           F. Rieke; D. Warland; R Ruyter van Steveninck; W Bialek (1997). Spikes: Exploring the Neural Code. The MIT press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0262681087.  
         ^ 
           Delgado-Bonal, Alfonso; Martín-Torres, Javier (3 November 2016). "Human vision is determined based on information theory". Scientific Reports. 6 (1): 36038. Bibcode:2016NatSR...636038D. doi:10.1038/srep36038. ISSN&nbsp;2045-2322. PMC&nbsp;5093619. PMID&nbsp;27808236.  
         ^ 
           cf; Huelsenbeck, J. P.; Ronquist, F.; Nielsen, R.; Bollback, J. P. (2001). "Bayesian inference of phylogeny and its impact on evolutionary biology". Science. 294 (5550): 2310–2314. Bibcode:2001Sci...294.2310H. doi:10.1126/science.1065889. PMID&nbsp;11743192. S2CID&nbsp;2138288.  
         ^ 
           Allikmets, Rando; Wasserman, Wyeth W.; Hutchinson, Amy; Smallwood, Philip; Nathans, Jeremy; Rogan, Peter K. (1998). "Thomas D. Schneider], Michael Dean (1998) Organization of the ABCR gene: analysis of promoter and splice junction sequences". Gene. 215 (1): 111–122. doi:10.1016/s0378-1119(98)00269-8. PMID&nbsp;9666097.  
         ^ 
           Jaynes, E. T. (1957). "Information Theory and Statistical Mechanics". Phys. Rev. 106 (4): 620. Bibcode:1957PhRv..106..620J. doi:10.1103/physrev.106.620.  
         ^ 
           Bennett, Charles H.; Li, Ming; Ma, Bin (2003). "Chain Letters and Evolutionary Histories". Scientific American. 288 (6): 76–81. Bibcode:2003SciAm.288f..76B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0603-76. PMID&nbsp;12764940. Archived from the original on 7 October 2007. Retrieved 11 March 2008.  
         ^ 
           David R. Anderson (1 November 2003). "Some background on why people in the empirical sciences may want to better understand the information-theoretic methods" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 July 2011. Retrieved 23 June 2010.  
         ^ 
           Dusenbery, David B. (1992). Sensory Ecology. New York: W.H. Freeman. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7167-2333-2.  
         ^ 
           Vigo, R. (2011). "Representational information: a new general notion and measure of information" (PDF). Information Sciences. 181 (21): 4847–59. doi:10.1016/j.ins.2011.05.020.  
         ^ 
           Vigo, R. (2013). "Complexity over Uncertainty in Generalized Representational Information Theory (GRIT): A Structure-Sensitive General Theory of Information". Information. 4 (1): 1–30. doi:10.3390/info4010001.  
         ^ 
           Vigo, R. (2014). Mathematical Principles of Human Conceptual Behavior: The Structural Nature of Conceptual Representation and Processing. New York and London: Scientific Psychology Series, Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0415714365.  
         ^ 
           Shannon, Claude E. (1949). The Mathematical Theory of Communication.  
         ^ 
           Casagrande, David (1999). "Information as verb: Re-conceptualizing information for cognitive and ecological models" (PDF). Journal of Ecological Anthropology. 3 (1): 4–13. doi:10.5038/2162-4593.3.1.1.  
         ^ 
           Bateson, Gregory (1972). Form, Substance, and Difference, in Steps to an Ecology of Mind. University of Chicago Press. pp.&nbsp;448–66.  
         ^ 
           Simonsen, Bo Krantz. "Informationsordbogen - vis begreb". Informationsordbogen.dk. Retrieved 1 May 2017.  
         ^ Failure Trends in a Large Disk Drive Population. Eduardo Pinheiro, Wolf-Dietrich Weber and Luiz Andre Barroso  
         ^ 
           "Total data volume worldwide 2010-2025". Statista. Retrieved 6 August 2021.  
         ^ 
           "What is records management?". Retrieved 29 January 2021.  
         ^ 
           ISO 15489  
         ^ 
           Committee on Electronic Records (February 1997). "Guide For Managing Electronic Records From An Archival Perspective" (PDF). www.ica.org. International Committee on Archives. p.&nbsp;22. Retrieved 9 February 2019.  
         ^ 
           Willis, Anthony (1 August 2005). "Corporate governance and management of information and records". Records Management Journal. 15 (2): 86–97. doi:10.1108/09565690510614238.  
         ^ 
           Buckland, Michael K. (June 1991). "Information as thing". Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 42 (5): 351–360. doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-4571(199106)42:5&lt;351::AID-ASI5&gt;3.0.CO;2-3.  
         ^ 
           Beynon-Davies, P. (2002). Information Systems: an introduction to informatics in Organisations. Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-333-96390-6.  
         ^ 
           Beynon-Davies, P. (2009). Business Information Systems. Basingstoke: Palgrave. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-230-20368-6.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Liu, Alan (2004). The Laws of Cool: Knowledge Work and the Culture of Information. University of Chicago Press. 
       
        Bekenstein, Jacob D. (August 2003). "Information in the holographic universe". Scientific American. 289 (2): 58–65. Bibcode:2003SciAm.289b..58B. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0803-58. PMID&nbsp;12884539. 
       
        Gleick, James (2011). The Information: A History, a Theory, a Flood. New York, NY: Pantheon. 
       
        Lin, Shu-Kun (2008). "Gibbs Paradox and the Concepts of Information, Symmetry, Similarity and Their Relationship". Entropy. 10 (1): 1–5. arXiv:0803.2571. Bibcode:2008Entrp..10....1L. doi:10.3390/entropy-e10010001. S2CID&nbsp;41159530. 
       
        Floridi, Luciano (2005). "Is Information Meaningful Data?" (PDF). Philosophy and Phenomenological Research. 70 (2): 351–70. doi:10.1111/j.1933-1592.2005.tb00531.x. hdl:2299/1825. 
       
        Floridi, Luciano (2005). "Semantic Conceptions of Information". In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2005&nbsp;ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 
       
        Floridi, Luciano (2010). Information: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
       
        Logan, Robert K. What is Information? - Propagating Organization in the Biosphere, the Symbolosphere, the Technosphere and the Econosphere. Toronto: DEMO Publishing. 
       
        Nielsen, Sandro (2008). "The Effect of Lexicographical Information Costs on Dictionary Making and Use". Lexikos. 18: 170–89. 
       
        Stewart, Thomas (2001). Wealth of Knowledge. New York, NY: Doubleday. 
       
        Young, Paul (1987). The Nature of Information. Westport, Ct: Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-275-92698-4. 
       
        Kenett, Ron S.; Shmueli, Galit (2016). Information Quality: The Potential of Data and Analytics to Generate Knowledge. Chichester, United Kingdom: John Wiley and Sons. doi:10.1002/9781118890622. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-87444-8.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up information in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Information
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Information.
         
       
       
      
       Semantic Conceptions of Information Review by Luciano Floridi for the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       Principia Cybernetica entry on negentropy 
       Fisher Information, a New Paradigm for Science: Introduction, Uncertainty principles, Wave equations, Ideas of Escher, Kant, Plato and Wheeler. This essay is continually revised in the light of ongoing research. 
       How Much Information? 2003 an attempt to estimate how much new information is created each year (study was produced by faculty and students at the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley) 
       (in Danish) Informationsordbogen.dk The Danish Dictionary of Information Terms / Informationsordbogen
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Communication studies
           
         
         
          
            
            
             History 
             Outline
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Topics and
             terminology
           
          
            
            
             Biocommunication 
             Broadcasting 
             Communication 
             Computer-mediated communication 
             Conversation 
             History of communication 
             Information 
             Intercultural&nbsp;/ Interpersonal&nbsp;/ Intrapersonal communication 
             Journalism 
             Mass media 
             Meaning 
             Media ecology 
             Meta-communication 
             Models of communication 
             New media 
             Nonverbal communication 
             Propaganda 
             Reading 
             Speech 
             Symbol 
             Telecommunication 
             Text and conversation theory 
             Writing
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Communication design 
             Communication theory 
             Communicology 
             Crisis communication 
             Climate communication 
             Cross-cultural communication 
             Development communication 
             Discourse analysis 
             Environmental communication 
             Global communication 
             Health communication 
             International communication 
             Mass communication 
             Media studies 
             Mediated cross-border communication 
             Organizational communication 
             Political communication 
             Risk communication 
             Science communication 
             Technical communication 
             Visual communication 
             Closed-loop communication
             
           
         
         
          Scholars
          
            
            
             Adorno 
             Barthes 
             Bateson 
             Benjamin 
             Burke 
             Castells 
             Chomsky 
             Craig 
             Fisher 
             Flusser 
             Gasset 
             Gerbner 
             Goffman 
             Habermas 
             Horkheimer 
             Huxley 
             Innis 
             Jakobson 
             Janis 
             Johnson 
             Kincaid 
             Lippman 
             Luhmann 
             Marcuse 
             McLuhan 
             Mead 
             Morgan 
             Ong 
             Packard 
             Peirce 
             Postman 
             Quebral 
             Richards 
             Rogers 
             Schramm 
             Tankard 
             Tannen 
             Wertheimer
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Worldview
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related terms
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Basic beliefs / Beliefs 
                 Collective consciousness / Collective unconscious 
                 Conceptual system 
                 Context 
                 Conventional wisdom 
                 Conventions 
                 Cultural movement 
                 Epic poetry / National epics / World folk-epics 
                 Facts and factoids 
                 Framing 
                 Ideology 
                 Life stance 
                 Lifestyle 
                 Memes / Memeplex 
                 Mental model 
                 Metanarrative 
                 Mindset 
                 Norms 
                 Paradigm 
                 Philosophical theory 
                 Point of view 
                 Presuppositions 
                 Reality tunnel 
                 Schemata 
                 School of thought 
                 Set 
                 Social reality 
                 Theory of everything 
                 Umwelt 
                 Value system
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Aspects
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Biases
                  
                    
                    
                     Academic 
                     Attentional 
                     Attitude polarization 
                     Belief 
                     Cognitive 
                      
                       list
                       
                     Collective narcissism 
                     Confirmation 
                     Congruence 
                     Cryptomnesia 
                     Cultural 
                     Ethnocentrism 
                     Filter bubble 
                     Homophily 
                     In-group favoritism 
                     Magical thinking 
                     Media 
                     Observational error 
                     Observer-expectancy 
                     Selective exposure 
                     Selective perception 
                     Self-deception 
                     Self-fulfilling prophecy 
                      
                       Clever Hans effect 
                       placebo effect 
                       wishful thinking
                       
                     Status quo 
                     Stereotyping 
                      
                       ethnic
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Change andmaintenance
                  
                    
                    
                     Activism 
                     Argument 
                     Argumentum ad populum 
                     Attitude change 
                     Brainwashing 
                     Censorship 
                     Charisma 
                     Circular reporting 
                     Cognitive dissonance 
                     Critical thinking 
                     Crowd manipulation 
                     Cultural dissonance 
                     Deprogramming 
                     Echo chamber 
                     Education 
                      
                       religious 
                       values
                       
                     Euphemism 
                     Excommunication 
                     Fearmongering 
                     Historical revisionism 
                      
                       negationism
                       
                     Ideological repression 
                     Indoctrination 
                     Media manipulation 
                     Media regulation 
                     Missionaries 
                     Moral entrepreneurship 
                     Persuasion 
                     Polite fiction 
                     Political engineering 
                     Propaganda 
                     Propaganda model 
                     Proselytism 
                     Psychological manipulation 
                     Psychological warfare 
                     Religious conversion 
                      
                       forced
                       
                     Religious persecution 
                     Religious uniformity 
                     Revolutions 
                     Rhetoric 
                     Self-censorship 
                     Social change 
                     Social control 
                     Social engineering 
                     Social influence 
                     Social progress 
                     Suppression of dissent 
                     Systemic bias 
                     Woozle effect
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Culture
                  
                    
                    
                     Anthropology 
                      
                       cultural 
                       social
                       
                     Calendars 
                     Ceremonies 
                     Coronations 
                     Cross-cultural psychology 
                     Cultural psychology 
                     Doctrine 
                     Employment / Serfdom / Slavery 
                     Families 
                     Funerals / Burial 
                     Games 
                     Holidays 
                     Hygiene 
                      
                       ritual
                       
                     Identity (philosophy) 
                      
                       cultural
                       
                     Institutions 
                     Liminality 
                     Liturgy 
                     Marriage 
                     Myth and ritual 
                     Oaths 
                     Pilgrimages 
                     Play 
                     Rites of passage 
                      
                       secular
                       
                     Rituals 
                     Social class / Social status / Caste 
                     Symbols 
                     Symbolic boundaries 
                     Worship
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Groupthink
                  
                    
                    
                     Abilene paradox 
                     Bandwagon effect 
                     Collectives 
                     Collective behavior 
                      
                       animal
                       
                     Collective effervescence 
                     Collective intelligence 
                     Conformity 
                     Consensus theory 
                     Crowd psychology 
                     Cults 
                     Culture-bound syndromes 
                     Deindividuation 
                     Doublethink 
                     Emergence 
                     Emotional contagion 
                     Entitativity 
                     False consensus effect 
                     Folie à deux 
                     Group action 
                     Group cohesiveness 
                     Group dynamics 
                     Group emotion 
                     Group polarization 
                     Groupshift 
                     Herd behavior 
                     Holism 
                     Hysterical contagion 
                     Information cascade 
                     In-group and out-group 
                     Invisible hand 
                     Lynching 
                     Majoritarianism / Mob rule 
                     Mass action 
                     Mass psychogenic illness 
                     Milieu control 
                     Mobbing 
                     Moral panic 
                     Peer pressure 
                     Pluralistic ignorance 
                     Political correctness 
                     Pseudoconsensus 
                     Scapegoating 
                     Self-organization 
                     Social actions 
                     Social behavior 
                     Social emotions 
                     Social exclusion 
                     Social facilitation 
                      
                       animal
                       
                     Social group 
                     Social proof 
                     Social psychology 
                     Sociology 
                     Spontaneous order 
                     Status quo 
                     Stigmergy 
                     Swarm behaviour 
                     System justification 
                     Viral phenomena
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Knowledge
                  
                    
                    
                     Axioms 
                      
                       tacit assumptions
                       
                     Conceptual framework 
                     Epistemology 
                      
                       outline
                       
                     Evidence 
                      
                       anecdotal 
                       scientific
                       
                     Explanations 
                     Faith 
                      
                       fideism
                       
                     Gnosis 
                     Intuition 
                     Meaning-making 
                     Memory 
                     Metaknowledge 
                     Methodology 
                     Observation 
                     Observational learning 
                     Perception 
                     Reasoning 
                      
                       fallacious 
                       logic
                       
                     Revelation 
                     Testimony 
                     Tradition 
                      
                       folklore
                       
                     Truth 
                      
                       consensus theory 
                       criteria
                       
                     World disclosure
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                  
                    
                    
                     Ætiology 
                     Afterlife 
                     Anima mundi 
                     Being 
                     Causality 
                     Concepts 
                     Consciousness 
                      
                       mind–body problem
                       
                     Cosmogony 
                     Cosmology 
                      
                       religious
                       
                     Creation myth 
                     Deities 
                      
                       existence
                       
                     Destiny 
                     Eschatology 
                     Everything / Nothing 
                     Evolution 
                     Existence 
                     Fiction / Nonfiction 
                     Free will 
                     Future 
                     History 
                     Ideas 
                     Idios kosmos 
                     Illusions 
                     Incarnation 
                     Information 
                     Intelligence 
                     Magic 
                     Matter 
                     Miracles 
                     Mythology 
                      
                       comparative
                       
                     National mythoi 
                     Nature 
                      
                       philosophical
                       
                     Ontology 
                     Origin myths 
                      
                       political
                       
                     Otherworlds 
                      
                       axes mundi
                       
                     Physics 
                      
                       natural philosophy
                       
                     Problem of evil 
                     Reality 
                     Souls 
                     Spirit 
                     Supernature 
                     Teleology 
                     Theology 
                     Time 
                     Unobservables
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Value
                  
                    
                    
                     Æsthetics 
                     Almsgiving / Charity 
                     Altruism 
                     Autonomy 
                     Beauty 
                     Codes of conduct 
                     Comedy 
                     Common good 
                     Conscience 
                     Consent 
                     Creativity 
                     Disgust 
                     Duty 
                     Economics 
                     Ecstasy 
                      
                       emotional 
                       religious
                       
                     Elegance 
                     Emotions 
                      
                       æsthetic
                       
                     Entertainment 
                     Eroticism 
                     Ethics 
                     Étiquette 
                     Family values 
                     Food and drink prohibitions 
                      
                       unclean animals
                       
                     Golden Rule 
                     Guilt / Culpability 
                     Happiness 
                     Harmony 
                     Honour 
                     Human rights 
                     Judgement 
                     Justice 
                     Law 
                      
                       jurisprudence 
                       religious
                       
                     Liberty 
                      
                       political freedom
                       
                     Love 
                     Magnificence 
                     Maxims 
                     Meaning of life 
                     Morality 
                      
                       public
                       
                     Obligations 
                     Peace 
                     Piety 
                     Praxeology 
                     Principles 
                     Punishment 
                     Qualities 
                     Repentance 
                     Reverence 
                     Rights 
                     Sexuality 
                      
                       ethics
                       
                     Sin 
                     Social stigma 
                     Stewardship 
                     Styles 
                     Sublime, The 
                     Suffering 
                     Sympathy 
                     Taboo 
                     Taste 
                     Theodicy 
                     Trust 
                     Unspoken rules 
                     Virtues and Vices 
                     Works of art 
                     Wrongdoing
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Examples
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Attitudes
                  
                    
                    
                     Optimism 
                     Pessimism 
                     Reclusion 
                     Weltschmerz
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Economic andpolitical ideologies
                  
                    
                    
                     Anarchism 
                     Authoritarianism 
                     Capitalism 
                     Christian democracy 
                     Collectivism 
                     Colonialism 
                     Communalism 
                     Communism 
                     Communitarianism 
                     Conservatism 
                     Constitutionalism 
                     Distributism 
                     Environmentalism 
                     Extremism 
                     Fanaticism 
                     Fascism 
                     Feminism 
                     Fundamentalism 
                     Globalism 
                     Green politics 
                     Imperialism 
                     Individualism 
                     Industrialisation 
                     Intellectualism 
                     Islamism 
                     Liberalism 
                     Libertarianism 
                     Masculism 
                     Militarism 
                     Monarchism 
                     Nationalism 
                     Pacifism 
                     Progressivism 
                     Radicalism 
                     Reformism 
                     Republicanism 
                     Sentientism 
                     Social democracy 
                     Socialism 
                     Utilitarianism 
                     Veganism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Religions
                  
                    
                    
                     Baháʼí 
                     Buddhism 
                     Caodaism 
                     Cheondoism 
                     Chinese folk religion 
                     Christianity 
                      
                       Eastern Orthodox Church
                       
                     Ethnic religions 
                     Hinduism 
                     Hòa Hảo 
                     Islam 
                     Jainism 
                     Judaism 
                     Korean shamanism 
                     Modern Paganism 
                     Rastafari 
                     Secularity / Irreligion / Agnosticism / Atheism 
                     Shinto 
                     Sikhism 
                     Spiritism 
                     Taoism 
                     Tenrikyo 
                     Traditional African religions 
                     Unitarian Universalism 
                     Zoroastrianism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Schools ofphilosophy
                  
                    
                    
                     Agriculturalism 
                     Aristotelianism 
                     Atomism 
                     Averroism 
                     Cartesianism 
                     Cārvāka 
                     Collectivism 
                     Confucianism / New Confucianism 
                     Critical theory 
                     Cynicism 
                     Cyrenaics 
                     Determinism 
                     Dualism 
                     Eleatics 
                     Empiricism 
                     Epicureanism 
                     Eretrian school 
                     Existentialism 
                     Foundationalism 
                     Hedonism 
                     Hegelianism 
                     Hermeneutics 
                     Historicism / New historicism 
                     Holism 
                     Humanism / Renaissance humanism 
                     Idealism 
                     Illuminationism 
                     ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                     Individualism 
                     Ionian 
                     Kantianism / Neo-Kantianism 
                     Kokugaku 
                     Legalism 
                     Logicians 
                     Materialism 
                     Megarian school 
                     Modernism / Postmodernism 
                     Mohism 
                     Monism 
                     Natural law 
                     Naturalism (Chinese) 
                     Naturalism (Western) 
                     Nihilism 
                     Peripatetic 
                     Phenomenology 
                     Platonism / Neoplatonism 
                     Pluralism 
                     Positivism 
                     Pragmatism 
                     Pre-Socratic 
                     Pyrrhonism 
                     Pythagoreanism / Neopythagoreanism 
                     Rationalism 
                     Reductionism 
                     Scholasticism / Neo-scholasticism 
                     Sentientism 
                     Social constructionism 
                     Sophism 
                     Spinozism 
                     Stoicism 
                     Structuralism / Post-structuralism 
                     Thomism 
                     Transcendentalism 
                     Utilitarianism 
                     Yangism
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Metaphysics
           
         
         
          Metaphysicians
          
            
            
             Parmenides 
             Plato 
             Aristotle 
             Plotinus 
             Duns Scotus 
             Thomas Aquinas 
             Francisco Suárez 
             Nicolas Malebranche 
             René Descartes 
             John Locke 
             David Hume 
             Thomas Reid 
             Immanuel Kant 
             Isaac Newton 
             Arthur Schopenhauer 
             Baruch Spinoza 
             Georg W. F. Hegel 
             George Berkeley 
             Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
             Christian Wolff 
             Bernard Bolzano 
             Hermann Lotze 
             Henri Bergson 
             Friedrich Nietzsche 
             Charles Sanders Peirce 
             Joseph Maréchal 
             Ludwig Wittgenstein 
             Martin Heidegger 
             Alfred N. Whitehead 
             Bertrand Russell 
             G. E. Moore 
             Gilles Deleuze 
             Jean-Paul Sartre 
             Gilbert Ryle 
             Hilary Putnam 
             P. F. Strawson 
             R. G. Collingwood 
             Rudolf Carnap 
             Saul Kripke 
             W. V. O. Quine 
             G. E. M. Anscombe 
             Donald Davidson 
             Michael Dummett 
             D. M. Armstrong 
             David Lewis 
             Alvin Plantinga 
             Héctor-Neri Castañeda 
             Peter van Inwagen 
             Derek Parfit 
             Alexius Meinong 
             Ernst Mally 
             Edward N. Zalta 
             more ...
             
           
         
         
          Theories
          
            
            
             Abstract object theory 
             Action theory 
             Anti-realism 
             Determinism 
             Dualism 
             Enactivism 
             Essentialism 
             Existentialism 
             Free will 
             Idealism 
             Libertarianism 
             Liberty 
             Materialism 
             Meaning of life 
             Monism 
             Naturalism 
             Nihilism 
             Phenomenalism 
             Realism 
             Physicalism 
             Platonic realism 
             Relativism 
             Scientific realism 
             Solipsism 
             Subjectivism 
             Substance theory 
             Truthmaker theory 
             Type theory
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Abstract object 
             Anima mundi 
             Being 
             Category of being 
             Causality 
             Causal closure 
             Choice 
             Cogito, ergo sum 
             Concept 
             Embodied cognition 
             Essence 
             Existence 
             Experience 
             Hypostatic abstraction 
             Idea 
             Identity 
             Information 
             Insight 
             Intelligence 
             Intention 
             Linguistic modality 
             Matter 
             Meaning 
             Memetics 
             Mental representation 
             Mind 
             Motion 
             Nature 
             Necessity 
             Notion 
             Object 
             Pattern 
             Perception 
             Physical object 
             Principle 
             Property 
             Qualia 
             Quality 
             Reality 
             Relation 
             Soul 
             Subject 
             Substantial form 
             Thought 
             Time 
             Truth 
             Type–token distinction 
             Universal 
             Unobservable 
             Value 
             more ...
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Axiology 
             Cosmology 
             Epistemology 
             Feminist metaphysics 
             Interpretations of quantum mechanics 
             Mereology 
             Meta- 
             Ontology 
             Philosophy of mind 
             Philosophy of psychology 
             Philosophy of self 
             Philosophy of space and time 
             Teleology
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
             &nbsp;Philosophy portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information&amp;oldid=1069858953"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information
       Concepts in metaphysics
       Information science
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Use dmy dates from May 2020
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Commons link from Wikidata
       Articles with Danish-language sources (da)
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       العربية
       Aragonés
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Avañe'ẽ
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Буряад
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       گیلکی
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       IsiXhosa
       IsiZulu
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Limburgs
       Magyar
       मैथिली
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Qırımtatarca
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 4 February 2022, at 12:51&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
