
 
  
   
  Archival science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Archival science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Archival science, or archival studies, is the study and theory of building and curating archives, which are collections of documents, recordings and data storage devices. 
      To build and curate an archive, one must acquire and evaluate recorded materials, and be able to access them later. To this end, archival science seeks to improve methods for appraising, storing, preserving, and cataloging recorded materials. 
      An archival record preserves data that is not intended to change. In order to be of value to society, archives must be trustworthy. Therefore, an archivist has a responsibility to authenticate archival materials, such as historical documents, and to ensure their reliability, integrity, and usability. Archival records must be what they claim to be; accurately represent the activity they were created for; present a coherent picture through an array of content; and be in usable condition in an accessible location. 
      An archive curator is called an archivist; the curation of an archive is called archive administration.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Background 
          
          1.1 History 
          1.2 Critical archival studies 
          1.3 Standards 
           
        2 Provenance in archival science 
          
          2.1 The principle of provenance 
          2.2 Practices before the emergence of provenance 
          2.3 Emergence of provenance 
          2.4 Debates 
           
        3 Preservation in archival science 
          
          3.1 The beginnings of preservation 
          3.2 Archival preservation 
          3.3 Digital preservation 
          3.4 Information access 
           
        4 Professional associations 
        5 Regional professional associations 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Background 
      History 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The earliest archival manuals: Jacob von Rammingen, Von der Registratur (1571), Baldassare Bonifacio, De Archivis (1632).
        
       
       
      Archival science emerged from diplomatics, the critical analysis of documents. 
      In 1540, Jacob von Rammingen (1510-1582) wrote the manuscript of the earliest known archival manual. He was an expert on registries (Registraturen), the German word for what later became known as archives. 
      Rammingen elaborated a registry for the Augsburg city council. However, since he could not attend the council meeting, he described the structure and management of the archives in writing. Although this is not the first work about archival science (Rammingen himself refers to earlier literature about record-keeping), earlier manuals were usually not published. Archival science had no formal beginning. Jacob von Rammingen's manual was printed in Heidelberg in 1571. 
      Traditionally, archival science has involved the study of methods for preserving items in climate-controlled storage facilities. It is also the study of cataloguing and accession, of retrieval and safe handling. The advent of digital documents along with the development of electronic databases has caused the field to re-evaluate its means and ends. While generally associated with museums and libraries, the field also can pertain to individuals who maintain private collections or business archives. Archival Science is taught in colleges and universities, usually under the umbrella of Information Science or paired with a History program. 
      A list of foundational thinkers in archival studies could include: American archivist Theodore Schellenberg and British archivist Sir Hilary Jenkinson. Some important archival thinkers of the past century include: Canadian archivist and scholar Terry Cook, South African archivist Verne Harris, Australian archival scholar Sue McKemmish, UCLA faculty and archival scholar Anne Gilliland, University of Michigan faculty and archival scholar Margaret Hedstrom, American archival scholar and University of Pittsburgh faculty member Richard Cox, Italian archival scholar and faculty at University of British Columbia Luciana Duranti, and American museum and archival scholar David Bearman.  
      Critical archival studies 
      In 2002, Archival Science published a series of articles analyzing systems of power in archival practice, which became part of a new movement of critical archival studies. This work applies critical theory to archival science, with subjects including how people and institutions create archives that justify and perpetuate oppression. Critical archival studies has a goal of building archival practices that resist reinforcing oppression based on race, class, gender, sexuality, and ability. For example, this work includes research into failures to document racist acts. This work has influenced digital humanities, which uses archives, becoming part of digital humanities scholarship that also works to resist oppression. 
      Archival studies have shown a re-emergence of post-custodial debate in relation to indigenous, community and human rights archives. It has been indicated that archival institutions in the global north often enter into repressive partnerships with institutions in the global south. It would only involve the transaction of valuable material from the global south and unfairly benefiting from them, increasing inequality. Archival studies have provided measures to decolonise archival practice in order to dismantle colonial and imperialist implications, especially regarding such post-custodial partnerships. 
      Michelle Caswell, a prominent academic and archivist, introduced in her archival studies the term "symbolic annihilation" to describe the misrepresentation of marginalised communities within their own archives. This absence can also be found in archival policies as well as description and annotation practices. The preservation and the usage of accurate language and description of community archives is therefore crucial for their accessibility and inclusivity. This would ensure the consideration of neglected community values, and contribute to critical archival discussions regarding the silence in historical documentation. 
      Following the 2016 US elections, Caswell published a study reviewing the manner in which white privilege is implanted within archival institutions. Ways to dismantle white supremacy in archival practice were presented in the disciplines of appraisal, description, accessibility and education . Critical archival theory has examined Eurocentrism within archival practice. It was described that mainstream archival institutions tend to preserve and privilege mostly white archives, a homogeneous portrayal with a significant lack of diversity.  
      Standards 
      There is no universal set of laws or standards that governs the form or mission of archival institutions. The forms, functions, and mandates of archival programs and institutions tend to differ based on geographical location and language, the nature of the society in which they exist and the objectives of those in control of the archives. Instead, the current standards that have been provided and are most widely followed, such as the ICA standard, ISO standard, and DIRKS standard, act as working guidelines for archives to follow and adapt in ways that would best suit their respective needs. 
      Following the introduction of computer technology in archival repositories, beginning in the 1970s, archivists increasingly recognized the need to develop common standards for descriptive practice, in order to facilitate the dissemination of archival descriptive information. The standard developed by archivists in Canada, Rules for Archival Description, also known as RAD, was first published in 1990. As a standard, RAD aims to provide archivists with a consistent and common foundation for the description of archival material within a fonds, based on traditional archival principles. A comparable standard used in the United States is Describing Archives: A Content Standard, also known as DACS. These standards are in place to provide archivists with the tools for describing and making accessible archival material to the public. 
      Metadata comprises contextual data pertaining to a record or aggregate of records. In order to compile metadata consistently, so as to enhance the discoverability of archival materials for users, as well as support the care and preservation of the materials by the archival institution, archivists look to standards appropriate to various kinds of metadata for different purposes, including administration, description, preservation, and digital storage and retrieval. For example, common standards used by archivists for structuring descriptive metadata, which conveys information such as the form, extent, and content of archival materials, include Machine-Readable Cataloguing (MARC format), Encoded Archival Description (EAD), and Dublin core.  
      Provenance in archival science 
      Provenance in archival science refers to the "origin or source of something; information regarding the origins, custody, and ownership of an item or collection." As a fundamental principle of archives, provenance refers to the individual, family, or organization that created or received the items in a collection. In practice, provenance dictates that records of different origins should be kept separate to preserve their context. As a methodology, provenance becomes a means of describing records at the series level.  
      The principle of provenance 
      Describing records at the series level to ensure that records of different origins are kept separate, provided an alternative to item-level manuscript cataloguing. The practice of provenance has two major concepts: "respect des fonds," and "original order." "Respect des fonds" rose from the conviction that records entering an archive have an essential connection to the person or office that generated and used them; archivists consider all the records originating with a particular administrative unit (whether former, or still existing) to be a separate archival grouping, or "fonds", and seek to preserve and describe the records accordingly, with close attention to evidence of how they were organized and maintained at the time they were created.: 167–168  "Original order," refers to keeping records "as nearly as possible in the same order of classification as obtained in the offices of origin," gives additional credibility to preserved records and to their originating "fonds." Records must be kept in the same order they were placed in the course of the official activity of the agency concerned; records are not to be artificially reorganized. Records kept in their original order are more likely to reveal the nature of the organizations which created them, and more importantly, of the order of activities out of which they emerged. 
      Not infrequently, practical considerations of storage mean that it is impossible to maintain the original order of records physically. In such cases, however, the original order should still be respected intellectually in the structure and arrangement of finding aids.  
      Practices before the emergence of provenance 
      Following the French Revolution, a newfound appreciation for historical records emerged in French society. Records began to "acquir the dignity of national monuments", and their care was entrusted to scholars who were trained in libraries. The emphasis was on historical research, and it seemed obvious at the time that records should be arranged and catalogued in a manner that would "facilitate every kind of scholarly use". To support research, artificial systematic collections, often arranged by topic, were established and records were catalogued into these schemes. With archival documents approached from a librarianship perspective, records were organized according to classification schemes and their original context of creation were frequently lost or obscured. This form of archival arrangement has come to be known as the "historical manuscripts tradition".  
      Emergence of provenance 
      The principle of "respect des fonds" and of "original order" was adopted in Belgium and France about 1840 and spread throughout Europe during the following decades. Following the rise of state-run archives in France and Prussia, the rising volume of modern records entering the archive made the adherence to the manuscript tradition impossible; there were not enough resources to organize and classify each record. Provenance received its most pointed expression in the "Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives," a Dutch text published in 1898 and written by three Dutch archivists, Samuel Muller, Johan Feith, and Robert Fruin. This text provided the first description of the principle of provenance and argued that "original order" is an essential trait of archival arrangement and description. 
      Complementing the work of the Dutch archivists and supporting the concept of provenance were the historians of the era. Through subject-based classification aided research, historians began to concern themselves with objectivity in their source material. For its advocates, provenance provided an objective alternative to the generally subjective classification schemes borrowed from librarianship. Historians increasingly felt that records should be maintained in their original order to better reflect the activity out of which they emerged.  
      Debates 
      Although original order is a generally accepted principle, there has been some debate surrounding this theory in regards to personal archives. It has been argued that original order is not always ideal for personal archives as they are far more complex than organizational archives. However, others prefer to remain loyal to the principle of original order and maintain that personal records are created and maintained for much the same reason as organizational archives and should therefore follow the same principles.  
      Preservation in archival science 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Archival boxes at the NASA archives.
        
       
       
      Preservation, as defined by the Society of American Archivists (SAA), is the act of protecting materials from physical deterioration or loss of information, ideally in a noninvasive way. The goal of preservation is to maintain as much originality as possible while maintaining all the information which the material has to offer. Both scientific principles and professional practices are applied to this technique to obtain maximum effectiveness. In an archival sense, preservation refers to the care of all the aggregates within a collection. Conservation can be included in this practice and often these two definitions overlap.  
      The beginnings of preservation 
      Preservation emerged with the establishment of the first central archives. In 1789, during the French Revolution, the Archives Nationales was established and later, in 1794, transformed into a central archives. This was the first independent national archives and their goal was to preserve and store documents and records as they were. This trend gained popularity and soon other countries began establishing national archives for the same reasons, to maintain and preserve their records as they were created and received. 
      Cultural and scientific change also helped to bring about the idea and practice of preservation. In the late eighteenth century, many museums, national libraries, and national archives were established in Europe; therefore ensuring the preservation of their cultural heritage.  
      Archival preservation 
      Preservation, like provenance, is concerned with the proper representation of archival materials. Archivists are primarily concerned with maintaining the record, along with the context in which it was produced, and making this information accessible to the user. 
      Tout ensemble is a definition relating to preservation. This definition encompasses the idea of context and the importance of maintaining context. When a record is removed from its fellow records, it loses its meaning. In order to preserve a record it must be preserved in its original entirety or else it may lose its significance. This definition relates to the principle of provenance and respect des fonds as it similarly emphasizes the idea of the original record. 
      Metadata is key for the preservation of context within archival science. Metadata, as defined by the SAA, is “data about data.” This data can help archivists locate a specific record, or a variety of records within a certain category. By assigning appropriate metadata to records or record aggregates, the archivist successfully preserves the entirety of the record and the context in which it was created. This allows for better accessibility and improves the authenticity of the record. 
      Physical maintenance is another key feature of preservation. There are many strategies in place to preserve archives properly; such as rehousing items in acid-free containers, storing items in climate controlled areas, and copying deteriorating items. These preservation techniques are to be carried out with respect to provenance.  
      Digital preservation 
      
      
       Main article: Digital preservation
       
      Digital preservation involves the implementation of policies, strategies, and actions in order to ensure that digitized documents remain accurate and accessible over time. Due to emerging technologies, archives began to expand and require new forms of preservation. Archival collections spread to include new media such as microfilm, audiofiles, visualfiles, moving images, and digital documents. Many of these new types of media suffer from a shorter life expectancy than paper. With the quick advancement of our technological society, old media is becoming obsolete. Therefore, migration from old formats to new formats is necessary for the preservation of these digital medias so they can remain accurate and accessible. 
      Metadata is an important part of digital preservation as it preserves the context, usage, and migration of a digital record. Similarly to traditional preservation, metadata is required to preserve the context, authenticity, and accessibility of a record.  
      Information access 
      Preserved materials in digital archives can be accessed usually by specifying their metadata, or by content-based search such as full text search when using dedicated information retrieval approaches. These usually return results ranked in terms of their relevance to user queries. Novel retrieval methods for document archives can also use other ranking factors such as contemporary relevance and temporal analogy or interestingness measure to determine the utility and relevance of results.  
      Professional associations 
      Professional archivist associations seek to foster study and professional development:  
      
       
       
        Archives and Records Association (UK and Ireland) 
        Archives and Records Association, Ireland 
        Association of Moving Image Archivists 
        Association of Records Managers and Administrators 
        Association of Canadian Archivists 
        Australian Society of Archivists 
        International Association of Sound and Audiovisual Archives 
        International Council on Archives 
        Society of American Archivists
       
       
      Regional professional associations 
      Smaller professional regional associations also provide more local professional development, such as:  
      
       
       
        Society of North Carolina Archivists 
        New England Archivists 
        Society of Rocky Mountain Archivists 
        Society of Ohio Archivists 
        Mid-Atlantic Regional Archives Conference
       
       
      In 2002, the Society of American Archivists published guidelines for a graduate program in archival studies, but as of 2007 these guidelines have not been adopted by many universities. Practitioners of archival science might come from such academic backgrounds as library science, information science, history, or museology.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Archival appraisal 
        Archival processing 
        Archival bond 
        Digital artifactual value 
        Encoded Archival Description 
        Finding aid 
        Library science 
        Manuscript processing 
        Media preservation 
        Preservation (library and archival science) 
        Provenance 
        Records management 
        List of archives
       
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "The Archival Paradigm—The Genesis and Rationales of Archival Principles and Practices". Council on Library and Information Resources. Retrieved 2007-04-03.  
        ^ 
          "About records, archives and the profession". International Council on Archives. Retrieved 2011-11-03.  
        ^ 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Archival Science". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2012-12-07.  
        ^ 
          Duranti, Luciana; Heather MacNeil (January 1996). "The Protection of the Integrity of Electronic Records: An Overview of the UBC-MAS Research Project". Archivaria. 1 (42): 46–67. Retrieved 2007-02-16.  
        ^ a b 
          Weidling, T. (2013). "Den äldsta arkivläran: Jacob von Rammingens båda läroböcker i registratur- och arkivskötsel från 1571, samt en monografi om arkiv från 1632 av Baldassare Bonifacio" . Scandinavian Journal of History (in Swedish). 38 (2): 270–271. doi:10.1080/03468755.2013.776405.  
        ^ 
          "Foreword". Standards for Archival Description: A Handbook. Society of American Archivists. Archived from the original on 5 April 2007. Retrieved 2007-04-03.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Caswell, Michelle; Punzalan, Ricardo; Sangwand, T-Kay (2017-06-27). "Critical Archival Studies: An Introduction". Journal of Critical Library and Information Studies. 1. doi:10.24242/jclis.v1i2.50.  
        ^ 
          Sangwand, T-Kay; Christian-Lamb, Caitlin; Lindblad, Purdom (2018). "Bridging Justice Based Practices for Archives + Critical DH". DH2018. Retrieved 2020-02-09.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Sangwand, T.-Kay (2018-11-29). "Preservation is Political: Enacting Contributive Justice and Decolonizing Transnational Archival Collaborations". KULA: Knowledge Creation, Dissemination, and Preservation Studies. 2: 10–10. doi:10.5334/kula.36. ISSN&nbsp;2398-4112.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Caswell, Michelle; Cifor, Marika; Ramirez, Mario H. (2016-06-01). ""To Suddenly Discover Yourself Existing": Uncovering the Impact of Community Archives1". The American Archivist. 79 (1): 56–81. doi:10.17723/0360-9081.79.1.56. ISSN&nbsp;0360-9081.  
        ^ a b 
          Caswell, Michelle (2017-06-08). "Teaching to Dismantle White Supremacy in Archives". The Library Quarterly. 87 (3): 222–235. doi:10.1086/692299. ISSN&nbsp;0024-2519.  
        ^ a b 
          Hughes-Watkins, Lae'l (2018-05-16). "Moving Toward a Reparative Archive: A Roadmap for a Holistic Approach to Disrupting Homogenous Histories in Academic Repositories and Creating Inclusive Spaces for Marginalized Voices". Journal of Contemporary Archival Studies. 5 (1). ISSN&nbsp;2380-8845.  
        ^ a b Adrian Cunningham, "Archival Institutions", in Archives: Recordkeeping in Society, ed. Sue McKemmish et al. (Wagga Wagga, New South Wales: Charles Sturt University, Centre for Information Studies, 2005), pp. 21-22.  
        ^ Roe, Kathleen D. (2005). Arranging &amp; Describing Archives &amp; Manuscripts. Chicago: Society of American Archivists. p. 37.  
        ^ 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Rules for Archival Description". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2016-01-01.  
        ^ 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Describing Archives: A Content Standard". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2016-01-01.  
        ^ a b c d e f g h Michèle V. Cloonan, "Preserving Records of Enduring Value," in Currents of Archival Thinking, ed. Terry Eastwood and Heather MacNeil (Santa Barbara, California: Libraries Unlimited, 2010), 69-88.  
        ^ a b Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Metadata." A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2016-01-01.  
        ^ a b 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Provenance". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2016-01-01.  
        ^ a b 
          Gilliland-Swetland, Luke (1991). "The Provenance of a Profession: The Permanence of the Public Archives and Historical Manuscripts Traditions in American Archival History". The American Archivist. 54 (2): 160–175 . doi:10.17723/aarc.54.2.w42580v137053675.  
        ^ a b c d e 
          Posner, Ernst (1940). "Some Aspects of Archival Development Since The French Revolution". The American Archivist. 3 (3): 159–172. doi:10.17723/aarc.3.3.q64h3343h663402j.  
        ^ a b c d e f Douglas, Jennifer (2010). "Origins: Evolving Ideas about the Principle of Provenance," in Currents of Archival Thinking, ed. Terry Eastwood and Heather MacNeil (Santa Barbara, California: Libraries Unlimited), p. 23-43.  
        ^ a b Posner (1940), p. 166.  
        ^ 
          Cook, Terry (1997). "What is Past is Prologue: A History of Archival Ideas Since 1898, and the Future Paradigm Shift". Archivaria. 43: 17–62.  
        ^ 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard (2005). "Preservation". A Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Retrieved 2016-01-01.  
        ^ a b c Kate Cumming, "Metadata Matters," in Managing Electronic Records, ed. Julie McLeod and Catherine Hare (London: Facet Publishing, 2005) 34-49.  
        ^ Mari Sato, Adam Jatowt, Yijun Duan, Ricardo Campos, Masatoshi Yoshikawa: Estimating Contemporary Relevance of Past News for Enhancing Search in Archival Collections, Proceedings of the 21tst ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Conference on Digital Libraries (JCDL 2021), ACM Press, Illinois, USA (2021)   
        ^ Adam Jatowt, I-Chen Hung, Michael Färber, Ricardo Campos and Masatoshi Yoshikawa: Exploding TV Sets &amp; Disappointing Laptops: Suggesting Interesting Content in News Archives based on Surprise Estimation, Proceedings of the 43rd European Conference on Information Retrieval (ECIR 2021), Lucca, Italy, Springer, pp. 254-269 (2021)   
        ^ 
          "Guidelines for a Graduate Program in Archival Studies". Society of American Archivists. Archived from the original on 6 April 2007. Retrieved 2007-04-03.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Archival science.
         
       
       
      
       Directory of Regional, State and Local Archival Organizations in the United States 
       The Academy of Certified Archivists 
       Archives and Records Association (UK &amp; Ireland) 
       Australian Society of Archivists 
       The Society of American Archivists
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Archival_science&amp;oldid=1056446053"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Archival science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 Swedish-language sources (sv)
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Latina
       Lietuvių
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Türkmençe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 November 2021, at 21:14&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
