
 
  
   
  Wikipedia:Splitting - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Wikipedia:Splitting 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Wikipedia information page
      
      
       
        
         
         
          
           This is an information page.
           
           
            It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines, but rather intends to describe some aspect(s) of Wikipedia's norms, customs, technicalities, or practices. It may reflect varying levels of consensus and vetting.
           
          
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Shortcuts
           
           
            WP:SPLIT
            WP:SPLITTING
            WP:SPLITOUT
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
         This page in a nutshell: 
          
           
            Splitting is the procedure by which the contents of a page are split into several pages.
            The two reasons for splitting are page size and content relevance. For uncontroversial splits, no permission is needed to split; just do it. If unsure, use one of the tags/templates below, and start a discussion on the talkpage.
            Use a good edit summary to comply with the license requirements.
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       For broader coverage of this topic, see Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia.
       
      
      
       This page is about splitting of articles. For splitting and merging of categories, see Wikipedia:Category intersection. For splitting of page histories, see Wikipedia:History splitting.
       
      If an article becomes too large, or a section of an article has a length that is out of proportion to the rest of the article, it may be appropriate for some or all of the article to be split into new articles. In some cases, refactoring an article into child or sister articles can allow subtopics to be discussed more fully elsewhere without dominating a general overview article to which they are non-central (but only if the new articles are themselves sufficiently notable to be included in the encyclopedia).  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 When to split 
          
          1.1 Size split 
          1.2 Content split 
           
        2 Procedure 
          
          2.1 Step 1: Create a discussion 
          2.2 Step 2: Add notice 
          2.3 Step 3: Discuss 
          2.4 Step 4: Close the discussion and determine the consensus 
          2.5 Step 5: Perform the splitting 
          2.6 Step 6: Clean up 
           
        3 How to properly split an article 
        4 Templates 
        5 Articles nominated for splitting 
        6 See also 
        
       
      When to split 
      
      
       
      
      
       
        Shortcut
       
       
        WP:WHENSPLIT
       
       
      The two main reasons for splitting material out from an article are size and content relevance. If either the whole article, or the specific material within one section becomes too large, or if the material is seen to be inappropriate for the article due to being out of scope, then a split may be considered or proposed. Consideration must be given to size, notability and potential neutrality issues before proposing or carrying out a split.  
      Size split 
      
      
       
      
      
       
        Shortcut
       
       
        WP:SIZESPLIT
       
       
      
      
       Main page: Wikipedia:Article size
       
      Articles should be neither too big nor too small. 
      Large articles may have readability and technical issues. A page of about 30 to 50&nbsp;kilobytes (kB) of readable prose, which roughly corresponds to 6,000 to 10,000 words, takes between 30 and 40 minutes to read at average speed, which is right on the limit of the average concentration span of 40 to 50&nbsp;minutes. Also, some users may have technical limitations, such as a low speed service, an unstable connection, or a pay per megabyte service. 
      At 50&nbsp;kB of readable prose and above it may benefit the reader to consider moving some sections to new articles and replace them with summaries per Wikipedia:Summary style. Consideration, however, needs to be given to the amount and quality of material to be moved. If the material for the new article is too short to provide encyclopedic coverage of the subject, or would simply duplicate the summary that would be left behind, then it may be too soon to move it. Unsourced material shouldn't be used to create new articles as it may have notability or verifiability issues. 
      Below 50&nbsp;kB, an article may not need splitting based on size alone, and at 40&nbsp;kB and below a split would generally only be justified based on content issues.  
       
       
        Rule of thumb 
        
       
         
         Readable prose size (kB) 
         What to do 
         
         
         &gt;&nbsp;100 
         Almost certainly should be divided 
         
         
         &gt;&nbsp;60 
         Probably should be divided (although the scope of a topic can sometimes justify the added reading time) 
         
         
         &gt;&nbsp;50 
         May need to be divided (likelihood goes up with size) 
         
         
         &lt;&nbsp;40 
         Length alone does not justify division 
         
         
         &lt;&nbsp;1 
         If an article or list has remained this size for over a couple of months, consider combining it with a related page. Alternatively, why not fix it by adding more info? See Wikipedia:Stub. 
        
       
       
      Number of characters in an article can be found with the help of XTools (also accessible via Page History from Page Statistics link at the top) under "Prose" in the "General statistics" section; Shubinator's DYK tool; or Prosesize. 
      These guidelines apply somewhat less to disambiguation pages and naturally do not apply to redirects. They also apply less strongly to list articles, especially if splitting them would require breaking up a sortable table. 
      Too large after templates are expanded:  
      
      
       Main page: Help:Template §&nbsp;Template limits
       
      
      
       Pages exceeding this limit are in Category:Pages where post-expand include size is exceeded
       
      After all templates and transclusions are accounted for, if the resulting "post-expanded include size" may reach a limit. Symptoms include templates lower in the page, such as } or navigation templates at the bottom of the page not displaying properly. One solution is to split the article. 
      Since "un-doing" a split may be labor-intensive if significant editing happens to either page after the split, try to avoid splitting until after a community discussion. If there is another way to reduce the "post-expanded size" that is easier to "undo" than a split, consider doing it first, then opening a discussion to see what the long-term fix should be. 
      Likewise, if a split would be controversial, try to find a less controversial way to temporarily reduce the "post-expanded size" then open a discussion to find consensus for a long-term fix. 
      However, if splitting the page is the easiest-to-undo solution and such a split would not be controversial, consider being bold and splitting the page, then immediately opening a discussion to see if the community accepts the split or if it offers alternative solutions. In this case, be prepared to undo the split.  
      Content split 
      
      
       
      
      
       
        Shortcuts
       
       
        WP:CONSPLIT
        WP:CONTENTSPLIT
       
       
      Sometimes two or more distinct topics may share the same base title or similar titles, such as "light", which may refer to electromagnetic radiation, a component that produces light, or spiritual illumination. Sometimes the distinct topics may be closely related, such as Coffea (the plant) and coffee (the product), or thermal energy and heat. 
      When two or more distinct topics with the same or a similar titles are being written about on the same page, even if they are closely related, a content split may be considered, and a disambiguation page created to point readers to the separate pages. Before proposing a split, consideration must be given both to notability of the offshoot topic and to potential neutrality issues. If one or more of the topics is not notable on its own, it may be more appropriate to simply remove the material from Wikipedia than to create a new article. 
      If unsure, then use a template, and start a discussion on the article talkpage.  
      Procedure 
      
      
       
      
      
       
        Shortcut
       
       
        WP:PROSPLIT
       
       
      Note: For disambiguation pages, use } instead of }. If section to be split out is known, use }. 
      If an article meets the criteria for splitting and no discussion is required, editors can be bold and carry out the split. If unsure, or with high-profile or sensitive articles, start a "Split" discussion on the article talk page, and consider informing any associated WikiProject(s). Additionally, adding one of the  splitting templates will display a notice on the article and list it at Category:Articles to be split. This will help bring it to the attention of editors who may assist in establishing consensus, in deciding if a split is appropriate, or in carrying out the split. Templates used without an accompanying rationale, and where there is no obvious reason for the split request, may be removed at any time. 
      Note: To conform with Wikipedia's licensing requirements, which require that all content contributors receive attribution, the page receiving the split material must have an edit summary noting "split content from ]". (Do not omit this step or omit the page name.) A note should also be made in the edit summary of the source article, "split content to ]". The } template can also be placed on the talk page of both articles. For further information, refer to the main Copying within Wikipedia guideline.  
      Step 1: Create a discussion 
      Skip to step 5 if making a bold split. Create a discussion on the talkpage of the page that content is to be split from. Include what sections are to be split and what the new page name should be. Example:  
      
       == Splitting proposal ==

I propose that sections '']'' be split into a separate page called '']''. The content of the current page seems off-topic and these sections are large enough to make their own page. ~~~~

       
      Notify involved users (optional): To generate a discussion and to notify people who know a lot about the topic, it is recommended to contact involved users. These users can be: frequent contributors, the creator of the page or users who have a lot of posts on the talk page. You can notify them by } or by using a notice for their talk page }. 
      Failure to reach a consensus, whether the result of a split discussion or a bold split that was contested, usually results in the article remaining whole. A contested bold split may be reverted; however it is not always appropriate to redirect the new article to the old as the new article may stand on its own, even if the main article that it came from is not split.  
      Step 2: Add notice 
      Use } to notify users of the proposed split. On the article (not the talkpage) add } or }. This template adds a box to notify users about the split. If the new page name is unknown, use } by itself with no parameters.  
      Step 3: Discuss 
      In many cases, a hybrid discussion/straw poll is used, but remember that polling is not a substitute for discussion. Example formatting:  
      
        * '''Support''' – &lt;insert reason for supporting split here&gt; ~~~~
 * '''Oppose''' – &lt;insert reason for opposing split here&gt; ~~~~

       
      Step 4: Close the discussion and determine the consensus 
      Close the discussion and determine the consensus by using the following:  
      
       == Split proposal ==

}

&lt;Start of discussion&gt;
.
.
.
&lt;End of discussion&gt;

}

       
      Step 5: Perform the splitting 
      See below. This is the most important step!  
      Step 6: Clean up 
      If material is split from an article, consider whether a summary section should be created, and whether a } template should be placed at the top of the section to link to the new page. In general, if the split is due to size, then a summary section is required; if the split is due to content (or scope), then a summary section is unlikely to be required. On the talk page of the new and old articles, include the template }.  
      How to properly split an article 
      
      
       
      
      
       
        Shortcuts
       
       
        WP:CORRECTSPLIT
        WP:PROPERSPLIT
       
       
      
      
       Further information: Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia
       
      
      
       Further information: Wikipedia:How to fix cut-and-paste moves
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Don't give up yet! Splitting an article isn't as difficult as it looks. There are a lot of steps, but they're pretty easy. Just take them one at a time until you get to the end of the list.
        
       
       
      The following procedure can be used for splitting from a single source article to a new article. These instructions are provided for guidance, but some steps may not be necessary in all cases and these instructions may not cover every eventuality. It is advisable to read through the whole of this procedure before starting.  
      
       If the material you want for the new article is scattered around the source article, then prepare the source article by grouping the material to be split out into a single section. Save your changes with an edit summary like "preparing to split article". If the material you want for the new article is already in a single section, then skip this step. 
       Create the new article by opening the empty page (or redirect page). 
       Open the source article (or relevant section) to edit in another browser window (or tab) and copy the contents to be split out (from the section created in step #1) from the source article. 
       Paste into the new article with edit summary "Contents ] from ]; please see its history for attribution." and save the new article. 
       Tidy up the new article: 
        
         The lead sentence will need to be changed to use bold font and usually includes a link to the source article. 
         A References section should be added and categories should be added. There may also be sections of a bibliography, navboxes, See also section or External links that can be copied from the source article. 
         Adjust section headings. 
         Add any background information about the parent subject that will be necessary for the reader to understand the subtopic. 
         Resolve any cite errors that occur when invocations of a named reference are separated from their definition&nbsp;– i.e. copy the relevant information from the source article.
         
       Create a good summary of the subtopic at the parent article. 
        
         Add "}" (use the order: image, main tag, text). If all the content of the section is being removed (e.g. in the case of a list) use the "See" template instead of the "Main" template. If necessary (where there is an image, but only a short paragraph of text) add "}" to the end. Use the edit summary "Material ] to ]" and save the edit. 
         Add a summary, usually of a couple of paragraphs and one image, of the newly created subtopic (unless complete removal is appropriate). 
         There may be some external links, bibliography items, etc. that can be removed from the source article as they are now in the new article.
         
       Check Special:WhatLinksHere to see whether some inlinks to the source article (especially any that were to the section that has been split off) can now be changed to point to the new article. 
       (Optionally) Add templates referring to the split to the talk pages: 
        
         If the new article is not being created from scratch (e.g. there is already a redirect) then go to the new article, click on 'View history' tab, select the edit where the copy was made, open it and copy the diff URL of the edit where the cut was made from the browser URL window. 
         If the new article is being created from scratch it's a bit more complicated to obtain a diff URL&nbsp;– see Template:Copied. 
         Open the source article talk page to edit in a new tab. 
         Add template } to source article talk page, and paste the diff URL into it, add the title of the new article and the date, add a descriptive edit summary and save the edit. 
         Open the new (destination) article talk page to edit in a new tab. 
         Add template } to the new article talk page, and paste the diff into it, add the title of the source page and the date, add a descriptive edit summary and save the edit.
         
       (Optionally) Put wikiproject tags on the new article's talk page. 
       (If possible) Connect the new article to any corresponding articles in other Wikipedias&nbsp;– see Interwiki.
       
      Templates 
      
      
       Main page: Wikipedia:Template messages/Splitting
       
      There are a number of templates that can be used on articles and their talk pages as part of splitting articles.  
      Articles nominated for splitting 
      A list of articles that have been tagged for consideration for splitting are at Category:Articles to be split.  
       
      
       
        
         Articles to be split
        
        
         (refresh)
        
        
         
          
           
            
             Subtotals
            
            
             December 2012
             1
            
            
             November 2015
             1
            
            
             July 2016
             1
            
            
             August 2016
             2
            
            
             November 2016
             1
            
            
             March 2017
             3
            
            
             April 2017
             1
            
            
             September 2017
             3
            
            
             October 2017
             2
            
            
             November 2017
             5
            
            
             December 2017
             1
            
            
             February 2018
             2
            
            
             March 2018
             2
            
            
             April 2018
             5
            
            
             May 2018
             7
            
            
             June 2018
             3
            
            
             July 2018
             7
            
            
             August 2018
             11
            
            
             September 2018
             6
            
            
             October 2018
             2
            
            
             November 2018
             10
            
            
             December 2018
             5
            
            
             January 2019
             7
            
            
             February 2019
             8
            
            
             March 2019
             11
            
            
             April 2019
             7
            
            
             May 2019
             8
            
            
             June 2019
             8
            
            
             July 2019
             6
            
            
             August 2019
             2
            
            
             September 2019
             10
            
            
             October 2019
             8
            
            
             November 2019
             4
            
            
             December 2019
             6
            
            
             January 2020
             19
            
            
             February 2020
             12
            
            
             March 2020
             10
            
            
             April 2020
             14
            
            
             May 2020
             10
            
            
             June 2020
             18
            
            
             July 2020
             10
            
            
             August 2020
             17
            
            
             September 2020
             24
            
            
             October 2020
             14
            
            
             November 2020
             21
            
            
             December 2020
             24
            
            
             January 2021
             20
            
            
             February 2021
             19
            
            
             March 2021
             16
            
            
             April 2021
             13
            
            
             May 2021
             25
            
            
             June 2021
             26
            
            
             July 2021
             22
            
            
             August 2021
             16
            
            
             September 2021
             32
            
            
             October 2021
             32
            
            
             November 2021
             26
            
            
             December 2021
             37
            
            
             January 2022
             46
            
            
             February 2022
             8
            
            
             Undated articles
             0
            
           
          
        
        
         All articles
         697
        
       
       
       
      See also 
      
       Wikipedia:Proposed article splits 
       Wikipedia:Summary style&nbsp;– do this 
       Wikipedia:Merging&nbsp;– or this 
       Wikipedia:Content forking&nbsp;– don't do this 
       Wikipedia:Naming conventions (long lists)&nbsp;– for lists split into multiple pages 
       Lumpers and splitters
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Article Splitting templates
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                
               
                
                 It has been suggested that this page be split into multiple pages. (Discuss)
                
              
             
             
            
             *Use on original article
            
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                
               
                
                 It has been suggested that portions of this page be split out into another page. (Discuss)
                
              
             
             
            
             *Same as above but different wording
            
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                
               
                
                 It has been suggested that this disambiguation page be split into multiple pages. (Discuss)
                
              
             
             
            
             *Use on original article if disambiguation
            
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                
               
                
                 It has been suggested that this section be split out into another page. (Discuss)
                
              
             
             
            
             *Use on original article when section is known
            
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            
             
              
               
               Text and/or other creative content from ] was copied or moved into ]. The former page's  now serves to provide attribution for that content in the latter page, and it must not be deleted so long as the latter page exists. The former page's talk page can be accessed at ].
              
             
            
           
         
         
          }
          
           
            ==Splitting discussion for ]== 
            
             
             
            An article that } been involved with (]) has content that is proposed to be removed and moved to another article (]). If you are interested, please visit ]. Thank you. ~~~~  
            
             *Notify users though their talk page about proposed split
            
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Splitting&amp;oldid=1068122874"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Wikipedia information pages
       Wikipedia how-to
       Wikipedia splitting
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Project pages with short description
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Project page
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Splitting&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Português
       سنڌي
       Tagalog
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 26 January 2022, at 19:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
    
 
