
 
  
   
  Philosophy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Philosophy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       For other uses, see Philosophy (disambiguation).
       
      
       Study of the truths and principles of being, knowledge, or conduct
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The School of Athens (1509–1511) by Raphael, depicting famous classical Greek philosophers in an idealized setting inspired by ancient Greek architecture.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Philosophy
        
        
         
          
           
            
             
             
             
              
             
            
           
          
          
           
            
             Plato
             Kant
             Nietzsche
            
           
           
            
             Buddha
             Confucius
             Averroes
            
           
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aesthetics 
             Axiology 
             Cosmology 
             Epistemology 
             Ethics 
             Legal 
             Linguistic 
             Logic 
             Mental 
             Metaphilosophy 
             Metaphysics 
             Political 
             Religious 
             Scientific 
             Social
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Periods
           
            
            
             Ancient 
             Medieval 
             Modern 
             Contemporary
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Traditions
           
            
            
             Analytic 
              
               Neopositivism 
               Ordinary language
               
             Aristotelian 
             Buddhist 
              
               Abhidharma 
               Madhyamaka 
               Pramāṇavāda 
               Yogacara
               
             Cārvāka 
             Christian 
              
               Augustinian 
               Humanist 
               Scotist 
               Thomist 
               Occamist
               
             Confucian 
              
               Neo-Confucianism 
               New Confucianism
               
             Continental 
              
               Existentialism 
               Phenomenology
               
             Hegelian 
             Hindu 
              
               Mīmāṃsā 
               Nyāya-Vaiśeṣika 
               Sāṃkhya 
               Yoga 
               Vedanta 
               Kashmir Shaivism 
               Navya-Nyāya 
               Neo-Vedanta 
               Integral yoga
               
             Islamic 
              
               Ash'arism 
               Early Islamic 
               Averroist 
               Avicennist 
               Illuminationist 
               Ismāʿīlism 
               Sufi
               
             Jain 
             Jewish 
              
               Judeo-Islamic
               
             Kantian 
             Legalism 
             Platonist 
              
               Neoplatonist
               
             Pragmatism 
             Skepticism 
             Taoist philosophy
             
            Traditions by region  
            
             African 
             Eastern 
              
               Chinese 
               Indian
               
             Middle-Eastern 
              
               Egyptian 
               Iranian
               
             Western
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Literature
           
            
            
             Aesthetics 
             Epistemology 
             Ethics 
             Logic 
             Metaphysics 
             Political philosophy
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophers
           
            
            
             Aestheticians 
             Epistemologists 
             Ethicists 
             Logicians 
             Metaphysicians 
             Social and political philosophers 
             Women in philosophy
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Index 
             Outline 
             Years 
             Problems 
             Publications 
             Theories 
             Glossary 
             Philosophers
            
           
           
        
        
          &nbsp;Philosophy portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Philosophy (from Greek: φιλοσοφία, philosophia, 'love of wisdom') is the study of general and fundamental questions, such as those about existence, reason, knowledge, values, mind, and language. Such questions are often posed as problems to be studied or resolved. Some sources claim the term was coined by Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BCE); others dispute this story, arguing that Pythagoreans merely claimed use of a preexisting term. Philosophical methods include questioning, critical discussion, rational argument, and systematic presentation. 
      Historically, philosophy encompassed all bodies of knowledge and a practitioner was known as a philosopher. From the time of Ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle to the 19th century, "natural philosophy" encompassed astronomy, medicine, and physics. For example, Newton's 1687 Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy later became classified as a book of physics. In the 19th century, the growth of modern research universities led academic philosophy and other disciplines to professionalize and specialize. Since then, various areas of investigation that were traditionally part of philosophy have become separate academic disciplines, and namely the social sciences such as psychology, sociology, linguistics, and economics. 
      Today, major subfields of academic philosophy include metaphysics, which is concerned with the fundamental nature of existence and reality; epistemology, which studies the nature of knowledge and belief; ethics, which is concerned with moral value; and logic, which studies the rules of inference that allow one to derive conclusions from true premises. Other notable subfields include philosophy of science, political philosophy, aesthetics, philosophy of language, and philosophy of mind.  
      
      
       
        
        
         Contents
         
         
         1 Definitions 
         2 Historical overview 
           
           2.1 Western philosophy 
             
             2.1.1 Ancient era 
             2.1.2 Medieval era 
             2.1.3 Modern era 
              
           2.2 Middle Eastern philosophy 
             
             2.2.1 Pre-Islamic philosophy 
             2.2.2 Islamic philosophy 
              
           2.3 Eastern philosophy 
             
             2.3.1 Indian philosophy 
             2.3.2 Buddhist philosophy 
             2.3.3 East Asian philosophy 
              
           2.4 African philosophy 
           2.5 Indigenous American philosophy 
           2.6 Women in philosophy 
           2.7 Philosophical progress 
            
         3 Branches of philosophy 
           
           3.1 Aesthetics 
           3.2 Ethics 
           3.3 Epistemology 
           3.4 Metaphysics 
           3.5 Logic 
           3.6 Mind and language 
           3.7 Philosophy of science 
           3.8 Political philosophy 
           3.9 Philosophy of religion 
           3.10 Metaphilosophy 
            
         4 Applied and professional philosophy 
         5 See also 
         6 References 
           
           6.1 Notes 
           6.2 Citations 
           6.3 Bibliography 
            
         7 Further reading 
           
           7.1 General introduction 
           7.2 Topical introductions 
             
             7.2.1 African 
             7.2.2 Eastern 
             7.2.3 Islamic 
              
           7.3 Historical introductions 
             
             7.3.1 General 
             7.3.2 Ancient 
             7.3.3 Medieval 
             7.3.4 Modern &amp; contemporary 
              
           7.4 Reference works 
            
         8 External links 
         
        
       
      Definitions 
      Initially, the term referred to any body of knowledge. In this sense, philosophy is closely related to religion, mathematics, natural science, education, and politics. 
      In section thirteen of his Lives and Opinions of the Eminent Philosophers, the oldest surviving history of philosophy (3rd century), Diogenes Laërtius presents a three-part division of ancient Greek philosophical inquiry:  
      
       Natural philosophy (i.e. physics, from Greek: ta physika, lit. 'things having to do with physis ') was the study of the constitution and processes of transformation in the physical world. 
       Moral philosophy (i.e. ethics, from êthika, 'having to do with character, disposition, manners') was the study of goodness, right and wrong, justice and virtue. 
       Metaphysical philosophy (i.e. logic, from logikós, 'of or pertaining to reason or speech') was the study of existence, causation, God, logic, forms, and other abstract objects. (meta ta physika, 'after the Physics')
       
      In Against the Logicians the Pyrrhonist philosopher Sextus Empiricus detailed the variety of ways in which the ancient Greek philosophers had divided philosophy, noting that this three-part division was agreed to by Plato, Aristotle, Xenocrates, and the Stoics. The Academic Skeptic philosopher Cicero also followed this three-part division. 
      This division is not obsolete, but has changed: natural philosophy has split into the various natural sciences, especially physics, astronomy, chemistry, biology, and cosmology; moral philosophy has birthed the social sciences, while still including value theory (e.g. ethics, aesthetics, political philosophy, etc.); and metaphysical philosophy has given way to formal sciences such as logic, mathematics and philosophy of science, while still including epistemology, cosmology, etc. For example, Newton's Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy (1687), since classified as a book of physics, uses the term natural philosophy as it was understood at the time, encompassing disciplines such as astronomy, medicine and physics that later became associated with the sciences.  
      Historical overview 
      In one general sense, philosophy is associated with wisdom, intellectual culture, and a search for knowledge. In this sense, all cultures and literate societies ask philosophical questions, such as "how are we to live" and "what is the nature of reality." A broad and impartial conception of philosophy, then, finds a reasoned inquiry into such matters as reality, morality, and life in all world civilizations.  
      Western philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Western philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Statue of Aristotle (384–322 BCE), a major figure of ancient Greek philosophy, in Aristotle's Park, Stagira.
        
       
       
      Western philosophy is the philosophical tradition of the Western world, dating back to pre-Socratic thinkers who were active in 6th-century Greece (BCE), such as Thales (c. 624 – c. 545 BCE) and Pythagoras (c. 570 – c. 495 BCE) who practiced a 'love of wisdom' (Latin: philosophia) and were also termed 'students of nature' (physiologoi). 
      Western philosophy can be divided into three eras:  
      
       Ancient (Greco-Roman). 
       Medieval philosophy (referring to Christian European thought). 
       Modern philosophy (beginning in the 17th century).
       
      Ancient era 
      While our knowledge of the ancient era begins with Thales in the 6th century BCE, little is known about the philosophers who came before Socrates (commonly known as the pre-Socratics). The ancient era was dominated by Greek philosophical schools. Most notable among the schools influenced by Socrates' teachings were Plato, who founded the Platonic Academy, and his student Aristotle, who founded the Peripatetic school. Other ancient philosophical traditions influenced by Socrates included Cynicism, Cyrenaicism, Stoicism, and Academic Skepticism. Two other traditions were influenced by Socrates' contemporary, Democritus: Pyrrhonism and Epicureanism. Important topics covered by the Greeks included metaphysics (with competing theories such as atomism and monism), cosmology, the nature of the well-lived life (eudaimonia), the possibility of knowledge, and the nature of reason (logos). With the rise of the Roman empire, Greek philosophy was increasingly discussed in Latin by Romans such as Cicero and Seneca (see Roman philosophy).  
      Medieval era 
      Medieval philosophy (5th–16th centuries) is the period following the fall of the Western Roman Empire and was dominated by the rise of Christianity and hence reflects Judeo-Christian theological concerns as well as retaining a continuity with Greco-Roman thought. Problems such as the existence and nature of God, the nature of faith and reason, metaphysics, the problem of evil were discussed in this period. Some key medieval thinkers include St. Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Boethius, Anselm and Roger Bacon. Philosophy for these thinkers was viewed as an aid to theology (ancilla theologiae) and hence they sought to align their philosophy with their interpretation of sacred scripture. This period saw the development of scholasticism, a text critical method developed in medieval universities based on close reading and disputation on key texts. The Renaissance period saw increasing focus on classic Greco-Roman thought and on a robust humanism.  
      Modern era 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A painting of the influential modern philosopher Immanuel Kant (in the blue coat) with his friends. Other figures include Christian Jakob Kraus, Johann Georg Hamann, Theodor Gottlieb von Hippel and Karl Gottfried Hagen.
        
       
       
      Early modern philosophy in the Western world begins with thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and René Descartes (1596–1650). Following the rise of natural science, modern philosophy was concerned with developing a secular and rational foundation for knowledge and moved away from traditional structures of authority such as religion, scholastic thought and the Church. Major modern philosophers include Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. 
      19th-century philosophy (sometimes called late modern philosophy) was influenced by the wider 18th-century movement termed "the Enlightenment", and includes figures such as Hegel a key figure in German idealism, Kierkegaard who developed the foundations for existentialism, Nietzsche a famed anti-Christian, John Stuart Mill who promoted utilitarianism, Karl Marx who developed the foundations for communism and the American William James. The 20th century saw the split between analytic philosophy and continental philosophy, as well as philosophical trends such as phenomenology, existentialism, logical positivism, pragmatism and the linguistic turn (see Contemporary philosophy).  
      Middle Eastern philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Middle Eastern philosophy
       
      Pre-Islamic philosophy 
      The regions of the Fertile Crescent, Iran and Arabia are home to the earliest known philosophical wisdom literature and is today mostly dominated by Islamic culture. 
      According to the assyriologist Marc Van De Mieroop, Babylonian philosophy was a highly developed system of thought with a unique approach to knowledge and a focus on writing, lexicography, divination, and law. It was also a bilingual intellectual culture, based on Sumerian and Akkadian.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A page of The Maxims of Ptahhotep, traditionally attributed to the Vizier Ptahhotep (c. 2375–2350 BCE).
        
       
       
      Early Wisdom Literature from the Fertile Crescent was a genre that sought to instruct people on ethical action, practical living, and virtue through stories and proverbs. In Ancient Egypt, these texts were known as sebayt ('teachings') and they are central to our understandings of Ancient Egyptian philosophy. The most well known of these texts is The Maxims of Ptahhotep. Theology and cosmology was a central concern in Egyptian thought. Perhaps the earliest form of a monotheistic theology also emerged in Egypt, with the rise of the Amarna theology (or Atenism) of Akhenaten (14th century BCE), which held that the solar creation deity Aten was the only god. This has been described as a "monotheistic revolution" by egyptologist Jan Assmann, though it also drew on previous developments in Egyptian thought, particularly the "New Solar Theology" based around Amun-Ra. These theological developments also influenced the post-Amarna Ramesside theology, which retained a focus on a single creative solar deity (though without outright rejection of other gods, which are now seen as manifestations of the main solar deity). This period also saw the development of the concept of the ba (soul) and its relation to god. 
      Jewish philosophy and Christian philosophy are religious-philosophical traditions that developed both in the Middle East and in Europe, which both share certain early Judaic texts (mainly the Tanakh) and monotheistic beliefs. Jewish thinkers such as the Geonim of the Talmudic Academies in Babylonia and Maimonides engaged with Greek and Islamic philosophy. Later Jewish philosophy came under strong Western intellectual influences and includes the works of Moses Mendelssohn who ushered in the Haskalah (the Jewish Enlightenment), Jewish existentialism, and Reform Judaism. 
      The various traditions of Gnosticism, which were influenced by both Greek and Abrahamic currents, originated around the first century and emphasized spiritual knowledge (gnosis). 
      Pre-Islamic Iranian philosophy begins with the work of Zoroaster, one of the first promoters of monotheism and of the dualism between good and evil. This dualistic cosmogony influenced later Iranian developments such as Manichaeism, Mazdakism, and Zurvanism.  
      Islamic philosophy 
      
      
       See also: Islamic philosophy
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An Iranian portrait of Avicenna on a Silver Vase. He was one of the most influential philosophers of the Islamic Golden Age.
        
       
       
      Islamic philosophy is the philosophical work originating in the Islamic tradition and is mostly done in Arabic. It draws from the religion of Islam as well as from Greco-Roman philosophy. After the Muslim conquests, the translation movement (mid-eighth to the late tenth century) resulted in the works of Greek philosophy becoming available in Arabic. 
      Early Islamic philosophy developed the Greek philosophical traditions in new innovative directions. This intellectual work inaugurated what is known as the Islamic Golden Age. The two main currents of early Islamic thought are Kalam, which focuses on Islamic theology, and Falsafa, which was based on Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism. The work of Aristotle was very influential among philosophers such as Al-Kindi (9th century), Avicenna (980 – June 1037), and Averroes (12th century). Others such as Al-Ghazali were highly critical of the methods of the Islamic Aristotelians and saw their metaphysical ideas as heretical. Islamic thinkers like Ibn al-Haytham and Al-Biruni also developed a scientific method, experimental medicine, a theory of optics, and a legal philosophy. Ibn Khaldun was an influential thinker in philosophy of history. 
      Islamic thought also deeply influenced European intellectual developments, especially through the commentaries of Averroes on Aristotle. The Mongol invasions and the destruction of Baghdad in 1258 is often seen as marking the end of the Golden Age. Several schools of Islamic philosophy continued to flourish after the Golden Age, however, and include currents such as Illuminationist philosophy, Sufi philosophy, and Transcendent theosophy. 
      The 19th- and 20th-century Arab world saw the Nahda movement (literally meaning 'The Awakening'; also known as the 'Arab Renaissance'), which had a considerable influence on contemporary Islamic philosophy.  
      Eastern philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Eastern philosophy
       
      Indian philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Indian philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Adi Shankara is one of the most frequently studied Hindu philosophers.
        
       
       
      Indian philosophy (Sanskrit: darśana, lit. 'point of view', 'perspective') refers to the diverse philosophical traditions that emerged since the ancient times on the Indian subcontinent. Indian philosophical traditions share various key concepts and ideas, which are defined in different ways and accepted or rejected by the different traditions. These include concepts such as dhárma, karma, pramāṇa, duḥkha, saṃsāra and mokṣa. 
      Some of the earliest surviving Indian philosophical texts are the Upanishads of the later Vedic period (1000–500 BCE), which are considered to preserve the ideas of Brahmanism. Indian philosophy is commonly grouped based on their relationship to the Vedas and the ideas contained in them. Jainism and Buddhism originated at the end of the Vedic period, while the various traditions grouped under Hinduism mostly emerged after the Vedic period as independent traditions. Hindus generally classify Indian philosophical traditions as either orthodox (āstika) or heterodox (nāstika) depending on whether they accept the authority of the Vedas and the theories of brahman and ātman found therein. 
      The schools which align themselves with the thought of the Upanishads, the so-called "orthodox" or "Hindu" traditions, are often classified into six darśanas or philosophies:Sānkhya, Yoga, Nyāya, Vaisheshika, Mimāmsā and Vedānta. 
      The doctrines of the Vedas and Upanishads were interpreted differently by these six schools of Hindu philosophy, with varying degrees of overlap. They represent a "collection of philosophical views that share a textual connection," according to Chadha (2015). They also reflect a tolerance for a diversity of philosophical interpretations within Hinduism while sharing the same foundation. 
      Hindu philosophers of the six orthodox schools developed systems of epistemology (pramana) and investigated topics such as metaphysics, ethics, psychology (guṇa), hermeneutics, and soteriology within the framework of the Vedic knowledge, while presenting a diverse collection of interpretations. The commonly named six orthodox schools were the competing philosophical traditions of what has been called the "Hindu synthesis" of classical Hinduism. 
      There are also other schools of thought which are often seen as "Hindu", though not necessarily orthodox (since they may accept different scriptures as normative, such as the Shaiva Agamas and Tantras), these include different schools of Shavism such as Pashupata, Shaiva Siddhanta, non-dual tantric Shavism (i.e. Trika, Kaula, etc.).  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The parable of the blind men and the elephant illustrates the important Jain doctrine of anēkāntavāda.
        
       
       
      The "Hindu" and "Orthodox" traditions are often contrasted with the "unorthodox" traditions (nāstika, literally "those who reject"), though this is a label that is not used by the "unorthodox" schools themselves. These traditions reject the Vedas as authoritative and often reject major concepts and ideas that are widely accepted by the orthodox schools (such as Ātman, Brahman, and Īśvara). These unorthodox schools include Jainism (accepts ātman but rejects Īśvara, Vedas and Brahman), Buddhism (rejects all orthodox concepts except rebirth and karma), Cārvāka (materialists who reject even rebirth and karma) and Ājīvika (known for their doctrine of fate). 
      Jain philosophy is one of the only two surviving "unorthodox" traditions (along with Buddhism). It generally accepts the concept of a permanent soul (jiva) as one of the five astikayas (eternal, infinite categories that make up the substance of existence). The other four being dhárma, adharma, ākāśa ('space'), and pudgala ('matter'). Jain thought holds that all existence is cyclic, eternal and uncreated. 
      Some of the most important elements of Jain philosophy are the Jain theory of karma, the doctrine of nonviolence (ahiṃsā) and the theory of "many-sidedness" or Anēkāntavāda. The Tattvartha Sutra is the earliest known, most comprehensive and authoritative compilation of Jain philosophy.  
      Buddhist philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Buddhist philosophy
       
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
         Monks debating at Sera monastery, Tibet, 2013. According to Jan Westerhoff, "public debates constituted the most important and most visible forms of philosophical exchange" in ancient Indian intellectual life.
        
       
       
      Buddhist philosophy begins with the thought of Gautama Buddha (fl. between 6th and 4th century BCE) and is preserved in the early Buddhist texts. It originated in the Indian region of Magadha and later spread to the rest of the Indian subcontinent, East Asia, Tibet, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia. In these regions, Buddhist thought developed into different philosophical traditions which used various languages (like Tibetan, Chinese and Pali). As such, Buddhist philosophy is a trans-cultural and international phenomenon. 
      The dominant Buddhist philosophical traditions in East Asian nations are mainly based on Indian Mahayana Buddhism. The philosophy of the Theravada school is dominant in Southeast Asian countries like Sri Lanka, Burma and Thailand. 
      Because ignorance to the true nature of things is considered one of the roots of suffering (dukkha), Buddhist philosophy is concerned with epistemology, metaphysics, ethics and psychology. Buddhist philosophical texts must also be understood within the context of meditative practices which are supposed to bring about certain cognitive shifts.: 8  Key innovative concepts include the four noble truths as an analysis of dukkha, anicca (impermanence), and anatta (non-self). 
      After the death of the Buddha, various groups began to systematize his main teachings, eventually developing comprehensive philosophical systems termed Abhidharma.: 37  Following the Abhidharma schools, Indian Mahayana philosophers such as Nagarjuna and Vasubandhu developed the theories of śūnyatā ('emptiness of all phenomena') and vijñapti-matra ('appearance only'), a form of phenomenology or transcendental idealism. The Dignāga school of pramāṇa ('means of knowledge') promoted a sophisticated form of Buddhist epistemology. 
      There were numerous schools, sub-schools, and traditions of Buddhist philosophy in ancient and medieval India. According to Oxford professor of Buddhist philosophy Jan Westerhoff, the major Indian schools from 300 BCE to 1000 CE were:: xxiv  the Mahāsāṃghika tradition (now extinct), the Sthavira schools (such as Sarvāstivāda, Vibhajyavāda and Pudgalavāda) and the Mahayana schools. Many of these traditions were also studied in other regions, like Central Asia and China, having been brought there by Buddhist missionaries. 
      After the disappearance of Buddhism from India, some of these philosophical traditions continued to develop in the Tibetan Buddhist, East Asian Buddhist and Theravada Buddhist traditions.  
      East Asian philosophy 
      
      
       Main articles: Chinese philosophy, Korean philosophy, Japanese philosophy, Vietnamese philosophy, and Eastern philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Statue of the Neo-Confucian scholar Zhu Xi at the White Deer Grotto Academy in Lushan Mountain.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Kitaro Nishida, considered the founder of the Kyoto School of philosophical thought, c. 1943.
        
       
       
      East Asian philosophical thought began in Ancient China, and Chinese philosophy begins during the Western Zhou Dynasty and the following periods after its fall when the "Hundred Schools of Thought" flourished (6th century to 221 BCE). This period was characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments and saw the rise of the major philosophical schools of China such as Confucianism (also known as Ruism), Legalism, and Taoism as well as numerous other less influential schools like Mohism and Naturalism. These philosophical traditions developed metaphysical, political and ethical theories such Tao, Yin and yang, Ren and Li. 
      These schools of thought further developed during the Han (206 BCE – 220 CE) and Tang (618–907 CE) eras, forming new philosophical movements like Xuanxue (also called Neo-Taoism), and Neo-Confucianism. Neo-Confucianism was a syncretic philosophy, which incorporated the ideas of different Chinese philosophical traditions, including Buddhism and Taoism. Neo-Confucianism came to dominate the education system during the Song dynasty (960–1297), and its ideas served as the philosophical basis of the imperial exams for the scholar official class. Some of the most important Neo-Confucian thinkers are the Tang scholars Han Yu and Li Ao as well as the Song thinkers Zhou Dunyi (1017–1073) and Zhu Xi (1130–1200). Zhu Xi compiled the Confucian canon, which consists of the Four Books (the Great Learning, the Doctrine of the Mean, the Analects of Confucius, and the Mencius). The Ming scholar Wang Yangming (1472–1529) is a later but important philosopher of this tradition as well. 
      Buddhism began arriving in China during the Han Dynasty, through a gradual Silk road transmission and through native influences developed distinct Chinese forms (such as Chan/Zen) which spread throughout the East Asian cultural sphere. 
      Chinese culture was highly influential on the traditions of other East Asian states and its philosophy directly influenced Korean philosophy, Vietnamese philosophy and Japanese philosophy. During later Chinese dynasties like the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) as well as in the Korean Joseon dynasty (1392–1897) a resurgent Neo-Confucianism led by thinkers such as Wang Yangming (1472–1529) became the dominant school of thought, and was promoted by the imperial state. In Japan, the Tokugawa shogunate (1603–1867) was also strongly influenced by Confucian philosophy. Confucianism continues to influence the ideas and worldview of the nations of the Chinese cultural sphere today. 
      In the Modern era, Chinese thinkers incorporated ideas from Western philosophy. Chinese Marxist philosophy developed under the influence of Mao Zedong, while a Chinese pragmatism developed under Hu Shih. The old traditional philosophies also began to reassert themselves in the 20th century. For example, New Confucianism, led by figures such as Xiong Shili, has become quite influential. Likewise, Humanistic Buddhism is a recent modernist Buddhist movement. 
      Modern Japanese thought meanwhile developed under strong Western influences such as the study of Western Sciences (Rangaku) and the modernist Meirokusha intellectual society which drew from European enlightenment thought and promoted liberal reforms as well as Western philosophies like Liberalism and Utilitarianism. Another trend in modern Japanese philosophy was the "National Studies" (Kokugaku) tradition. This intellectual trend sought to study and promote ancient Japanese thought and culture. Kokugaku thinkers such as Motoori Norinaga sought to return to a pure Japanese tradition which they called Shinto that they saw as untainted by foreign elements. 
      During the 20th century, the Kyoto School, an influential and unique Japanese philosophical school developed from Western phenomenology and Medieval Japanese Buddhist philosophy such as that of Dogen.  
      African philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: African philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Painting of Zera Yacob from Claude Sumner's Classical Ethiopian Philosophy.
        
       
       
      African philosophy is philosophy produced by African people, philosophy that presents African worldviews, ideas and themes, or philosophy that uses distinct African philosophical methods. Modern African thought has been occupied with Ethnophilosophy, with defining the very meaning of African philosophy and its unique characteristics and what it means to be African. 
      During the 17th century, Ethiopian philosophy developed a robust literary tradition as exemplified by Zera Yacob. Another early African philosopher was Anton Wilhelm Amo (c. 1703–1759) who became a respected philosopher in Germany. Distinct African philosophical ideas include Ujamaa, the Bantu idea of 'Force', Négritude, Pan-Africanism and Ubuntu. Contemporary African thought has also seen the development of Professional philosophy and of Africana philosophy, the philosophical literature of the African diaspora which includes currents such as black existentialism by African-Americans. Some modern African thinkers have been influenced by Marxism, African-American literature, Critical theory, Critical race theory, Postcolonialism and Feminism.  
      Indigenous American philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Indigenous American philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A Tlamatini (Aztec philosopher) observing the stars, from the Codex Mendoza.
        
       
       
      Indigenous-American philosophical thought consists of a wide variety of beliefs and traditions among different American cultures. Among some of U.S. Native American communities, there is a belief in a metaphysical principle called the 'Great Spirit' (Siouan: wakȟáŋ tȟáŋka; Algonquian: gitche manitou). Another widely shared concept was that of orenda ('spiritual power'). According to Whiteley (1998), for the Native Americans, "mind is critically informed by transcendental experience (dreams, visions and so on) as well as by reason." The practices to access these transcendental experiences are termed shamanism. Another feature of the indigenous American worldviews was their extension of ethics to non-human animals and plants. 
      In Mesoamerica, Nahua philosophy was an intellectual tradition developed by individuals called tlamatini ('those who know something') and its ideas are preserved in various Aztec codices and fragmentary texts. Some of these philosophers are known by name, such as Nezahualcoyotl, Aquiauhtzin, Xayacamach, Tochihuitzin coyolchiuhqui and Cuauhtencoztli.  These authors were also poets and some of their work has survived in the original Nahuatl. 
      Aztec philosophers developed theories of metaphysics, epistemology, values, and aesthetics. Aztec ethics was focused on seeking tlamatiliztli ('knowledge', 'wisdom') which was based on moderation and balance in all actions as in the Nahua proverb "the middle good is necessary." The Nahua worldview posited the concept of an ultimate universal energy or force called Ōmeteōtl ('Dual Cosmic Energy') which sought a way to live in balance with a constantly changing, "slippery" world. The theory of Teotl can be seen as a form of Pantheism. According to James Maffie, Nahua metaphysics posited that teotl is "a single, vital, dynamic, vivifying, eternally self-generating and self-conceiving as well as self-regenerating and self-reconceiving sacred energy or force." This force was seen as the all encompassing life force of the universe and as the universe itself.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Depiction of Pachacuti worshipping Inti (god Sun) at Coricancha, in the 17th century second chronicles of Martín de Murúa. Pachacuti was a major Incan ruler, author and poet.
        
       
       
      The Inca civilization also had an elite class of philosopher-scholars termed the amawtakuna or amautas who were important in the Inca education system as teachers of philosophy, theology, astronomy, poetry, law, music, morality and history. Young Inca nobles were educated in these disciplines at the state college of Yacha-huasi in Cuzco, where they also learned the art of the quipu. Incan philosophy (as well as the broader category of Andean thought) held that the universe is animated by a single dynamic life force (sometimes termed camaquen or camac, as well as upani and amaya). This singular force also arises as a set of dual complementary yet opposite forces. These “complementary opposites” are called yanantin and masintin. They are expressed as various polarities or dualities (such as male–female, dark–light, life and death, above and below) which interdependently contribute to the harmonious whole that is the universe through the process of reciprocity and mutual exchange called ayni. The Inca worldview also included the belief in a creator God (Viracocha) and reincarnation.  
      Women in philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Women in philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797) was an English writer and philosopher.
        
       
       
      Although men have generally dominated philosophical discourse, women philosophers have engaged in the discipline throughout history. Ancient examples include Hipparchia of Maroneia (active c. 325 BCE) and Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th centuries BCE). Some women philosophers were accepted during the medieval and modern eras, but none became part of the Western canon until the 20th and 21st century, when many suggest that G.E.M. Anscombe, Hannah Arendt, Simone de Beauvoir, and Susanne Langer entered the canon. 
      In the early 1800s, some colleges and universities in the UK and the US began admitting women, producing more female academics. Nevertheless, U.S. Department of Education reports from the 1990s indicate that few women ended up in philosophy and that philosophy is one of the least gender-proportionate fields in the humanities, with women making up somewhere between 17% and 30% of philosophy faculty according to some studies.  
      Philosophical progress 
      Many philosophical debates that began in ancient times are still debated today. British philosopher Colin McGinn claims that no philosophical progress has occurred during that interval. Australian philosopher David Chalmers, by contrast, sees progress in philosophy similar to that in science. Meanwhile, Talbot Brewer, professor of philosophy at University of Virginia, argues that "progress" is the wrong standard by which to judge philosophical activity.  
      Branches of philosophy 
      Philosophical questions can be grouped into various branches. These groupings allow philosophers to focus on a set of similar topics and interact with other thinkers who are interested in the same questions. 
      These divisions are neither exhaustive, nor mutually exclusive. (A philosopher might specialize in Kantian epistemology, or Platonic aesthetics, or modern political philosophy). Furthermore, these philosophical inquiries sometimes overlap with each other and with other inquiries such as science, religion or mathematics.  
      Aesthetics 
      
      
       Main article: Aesthetics
       
      Aesthetics is the "critical reflection on art, culture and nature." It addresses the nature of art, beauty and taste, enjoyment, emotional values, perception and with the creation and appreciation of beauty. It is more precisely defined as the study of sensory or sensori-emotional values, sometimes called judgments of sentiment and taste. Its major divisions are art theory, literary theory, film theory and music theory. An example from art theory is to discern the set of principles underlying the work of a particular artist or artistic movement such as the Cubist aesthetic.  
      Ethics 
      
      
       Main article: Ethics
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Beijing imperial college was an intellectual center for Confucian ethics and classics during the Yuan, Ming and Qing dynasties.
        
       
       
      Ethics, also known as moral philosophy, studies what constitutes good and bad conduct, right and wrong values, and good and evil. Its primary investigations include how to live a good life and identifying standards of morality. It also includes investigating whether or not there is a best way to live or a universal moral standard, and if so, how we come to learn about it. The main branches of ethics are normative ethics, meta-ethics and applied ethics. 
      The three main views in ethics about what constitute moral actions are:  
      
       Consequentialism, which judges actions based on their consequences. One such view is utilitarianism, which judges actions based on the net happiness (or pleasure) and/or lack of suffering (or pain) that they produce. 
       Deontology, which judges actions based on whether or not they are in accordance with one's moral duty. In the standard form defended by Immanuel Kant, deontology is concerned with whether or not a choice respects the moral agency of other people, regardless of its consequences. 
       Virtue ethics, which judges actions based on the moral character of the agent who performs them and whether they conform to what an ideally virtuous agent would do.
       
      Epistemology 
      
      
       Main article: Epistemology
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Dignaga founded a school of Buddhist epistemology and logic.
        
       
       
      Epistemology is the branch of philosophy that studies knowledge. Epistemologists examine putative sources of knowledge, including perceptual experience, reason, memory, and testimony. They also investigate questions about the nature of truth, belief, justification, and rationality. 
      Philosophical skepticism, which raises doubts about some or all claims to knowledge, has been a topic of interest throughout the history of philosophy. It arose early in Pre-Socratic philosophy and became formalized with Pyrrho, the founder of the earliest Western school of philosophical skepticism. It features prominently in the works of modern philosophers René Descartes and David Hume, and has remained a central topic in contemporary epistemological debates. 
      One of the most notable epistemological debates is between empiricism and rationalism. Empiricism places emphasis on observational evidence via sensory experience as the source of knowledge. Empiricism is associated with a posteriori knowledge, which is obtained through experience (such as scientific knowledge). Rationalism places emphasis on reason as a source of knowledge. Rationalism is associated with a priori knowledge, which is independent of experience (such as logic and mathematics). 
      One central debate in contemporary epistemology is about the conditions required for a belief to constitute knowledge, which might include truth and justification. This debate was largely the result of attempts to solve the Gettier problem. Another common subject of contemporary debates is the regress problem, which occurs when trying to offer proof or justification for any belief, statement, or proposition. The problem is that whatever the source of justification may be, that source must either be without justification (in which case it must be treated as an arbitrary foundation for belief), or it must have some further justification (in which case justification must either be the result of circular reasoning, as in coherentism, or the result of an infinite regress, as in infinitism).  
      Metaphysics 
      
      
       Main article: Metaphysics
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The beginning of Aristotle's Metaphysics in an incunabulum decorated with hand-painted miniatures.
        
       
       
      Metaphysics is the study of the most general features of reality, such as existence, time, objects and their properties, wholes and their parts, events, processes and causation and the relationship between mind and body. Metaphysics includes cosmology, the study of the world in its entirety and ontology, the study of being. 
      A major point of debate is between realism, which holds that there are entities that exist independently of their mental perception, and idealism, which holds that reality is mentally constructed or otherwise immaterial. Metaphysics deals with the topic of identity. Essence is the set of attributes that make an object what it fundamentally is and without which it loses its identity while accident is a property that the object has, without which the object can still retain its identity. Particulars are objects that are said to exist in space and time, as opposed to abstract objects, such as numbers, and universals, which are properties held by multiple particulars, such as redness or a gender. The type of existence, if any, of universals and abstract objects is an issue of debate.  
      Logic 
      
      
       Main article: Logic
       
      Logic is the study of reasoning and argument. 
      Deductive reasoning is when, given certain premises, conclusions are unavoidably implied. Rules of inference are used to infer conclusions such as, modus ponens, where given “A” and “If A then B”, then “B” must be concluded. 
      Because sound reasoning is an essential element of all sciences, social sciences and humanities disciplines, logic became a formal science. Sub-fields include mathematical logic, philosophical logic, Modal logic, computational logic and non-classical logics. A major question in the philosophy of mathematics is whether mathematical entities are objective and discovered, called mathematical realism, or invented, called mathematical antirealism.  
      Mind and language 
      
      
       Main articles: Philosophy of language and philosophy of mind
       
      Philosophy of language explores the nature, origins, and use of language. Philosophy of mind explores the nature of the mind and its relationship to the body, as typified by disputes between materialism and dualism. In recent years, this branch has become related to cognitive science.  
      Philosophy of science 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of science
       
      The philosophy of science explores the foundations, methods, history, implications and purpose of science. Many of its subdivisions correspond to specific branches of science. For example, philosophy of biology deals specifically with the metaphysical, epistemological and ethical issues in the biomedical and life sciences.  
      Political philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Political philosophy
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Thomas Hobbes, best known for his Leviathan, which expounded an influential formulation of social contract theory.
        
       
       
      Political philosophy is the study of government and the relationship of individuals (or families and clans) to communities including the state. It includes questions about justice, law, property and the rights and obligations of the citizen. Political philosophy, ethics, and aesthetics are traditionally linked subjects, under the general heading of value theory as they involve a normative or evaluative aspect.  
      Philosophy of religion 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of religion
       
      Philosophy of religion deals with questions that involve religion and religious ideas from a philosophically neutral perspective (as opposed to theology which begins from religious convictions). Traditionally, religious questions were not seen as a separate field from philosophy proper, the idea of a separate field only arose in the 19th century. 
      Issues include the existence of God, the relationship between reason and faith, questions of religious epistemology, the relationship between religion and science, how to interpret religious experiences, questions about the possibility of an afterlife, the problem of religious language and the existence of souls and responses to religious pluralism and diversity.  
      Metaphilosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Metaphilosophy
       
      Metaphilosophy explores the aims, boundaries and methods of philosophy. It is debated as to whether Metaphilosophy is a subject that comes prior to philosophy or whether it is inherently part of philosophy.  
      Applied and professional philosophy 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Martin Luther King Jr.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Contemporary philosophy §&nbsp;Outside the profession
       
      Some of those who study philosophy become professional philosophers, typically by working as professors who teach, research and write in academic institutions. However, most students of academic philosophy later contribute to law, journalism, religion, sciences, politics, business, or various arts. For example, public figures who have degrees in philosophy include comedians Steve Martin and Ricky Gervais, filmmaker Terrence Malick, Pope John Paul II, Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger, technology entrepreneur Peter Thiel, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Stephen Bryer and US vice presidential candidate Carly Fiorina. Curtis White has argued that philosophical tools are essential to humanities, sciences and social sciences. 
      Recent efforts to avail the general public to the work and relevance of philosophers include the million-dollar Berggruen Prize, first awarded to Charles Taylor in 2016. Some philosophers argue that this professionalization has negatively affected the discipline. 
        
      See also 
      
      
       Main article: Outline of philosophy
       
      
       
        
        Philosophy portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Criticism of philosophy 
        List of important publications in philosophy 
        List of years in philosophy 
        List of philosophy journals 
        List of philosophy awards 
        List of unsolved problems in philosophy 
        Lists of philosophers 
        Social theory
        
       
      References 
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ Quinton, Anthony. 1995. "The Ethics of Philosophical Practice." P. 666 in The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, edited by T. Honderich. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-866132-0. "Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved." (p. 666).  
        ^ 
          Sharma, Arvind (1990). A Hindu Perspective on the Philosophy of Religion. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-349-20797-8. Archived from the original on 12 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018. "The attitude towards the existence of God varies within the Hindu religious tradition. This may not be entirely unexpected given the tolerance for doctrinal diversity for which the tradition is known. Thus of the six orthodox systems of Hindu philosophy, only three address the question in some detail. These are the schools of thought known as Nyaya, Yoga and the theistic forms of Vedanta." (pp. 1–2).  
        ^ Wynne, Alexander. 2011. "The ātman and its negation." Journal of the International Association of Buddhist Studies 33(1–2):103–05. "The denial that a human being possesses a "self" or "soul" is probably the most famous Buddhist teaching. It is certainly its most distinct, as has been pointed out by G.P. Malalasekera: 'In its denial of any real permanent Soul or Self, Buddhism stands alone.' A similar modern Sinhalese perspective has been expressed by Walpola Rahula: 'Buddhism stands unique in the history of human thought in denying the existence of such a Soul, Self or Ātman.' The 'no Self' or 'no soul' doctrine (Sanskrit: anātman; Pali: anattan) is particularly notable for its widespread acceptance and historical endurance. It was a standard belief of virtually all the ancient schools of Indian Buddhism (the notable exception being the Pudgalavādins), and has persisted without change into the modern era.… oth views are mirrored by the modern Theravādin perspective of Mahasi Sayadaw that 'there is no person or soul' and the modern Mahāyāna view of the fourteenth Dalai Lama that 'he Buddha taught that…our belief in an independent self is the root cause of all suffering.'  
        ^ 
          Gombrich, Richard (2006). Theravada Buddhism. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-134-90352-8. Archived from the original on 16 August 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018. "All phenomenal existence  is said to have three interlocking characteristics: impermanence, suffering and lack of soul or essence." (p. 47).  
        ^ Wainwright, William J. 2005. "Introduction." Pp. 3–11 in The Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Religion Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine, edited by W. J. Wainwright. New York: Oxford University Press. "The expression “philosophy of religion” did not come into general use until the nineteenth century, when it was employed to refer to the articulation and criticism of humanity's religious consciousness and its cultural expressions in thought, language, feeling, and practice." (Oxford Handbook, p. 3, at Google Books).  
       
       
      Citations 
      
       
        
        ^ 
          "Online Etymology Dictionary". Etymonline.com. Archived from the original on 2 July 2017. Retrieved 22 August 2010.  
        ^ The definition of philosophy is: "1. orig., love of, or the search for, wisdom or knowledge 2. theory or logical analysis of the principles underlying conduct, thought, knowledge, and the nature of the universe". 
          Webster's New World Dictionary (Second College&nbsp;ed.).  
        ^ 
          "Philosophy". Lexico. University of Oxford Press. 2020. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.  
        ^ 
          Sellars, Wilfrid (1963). Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind (PDF). Routledge and Kegan Paul Ltd. pp.&nbsp;1, 40. Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.  
        ^ 
          Chalmers, David J. (1995). "Facing up to the problem of consciousness". Journal of Consciousness Studies. 2 (3): 200, 219. Archived from the original on 20 November 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.  
        ^ 
          Henderson, Leah (2019). "The problem of induction". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019. Retrieved 28 March 2019.  
        ^ 
          Cicero, Marcus Tullius (1877). Tusculan Disputations. New York: Harper &amp; Brothers. p.&nbsp;166. Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2021. From whence all who occupied themselves in the contemplation of nature were both considered and called wise men; and that name of theirs continued to the age of Pythagoras, who is reported to have gone to Phlius, as we find it stated by Heraclides Ponticus, a very learned man, and a pupil of Plato, and to have discoursed very learnedly and copiously on certain subjects with Leon, prince of the Phliasii; and when Leon, admiring his ingenuity and eloquence, asked him what art he particularly professed, his answer was, that he was acquainted with no art, but that he was a philosopher. Leon, surprised at the novelty of the name, inquired what he meant by the name of philosopher, and in what philosophers differed from other men; on which Pythagoras replied, “That the life of man seemed to him to resemble those games which were celebrated with the 166greatest possible variety of sports and the general concourse of all Greece. For as in those games there were some persons whose object was glory and the honor of a crown, to be attained by the performance of bodily exercises, so others were led thither by the gain of buying and selling, and mere views of profit; but there was likewise one class of persons, and they were by far the best, whose aim was neither applause nor profit, but who came merely as spectators through curiosity, to observe what was done, and to see in what manner things were carried on there. And thus, said he, we come from another life and nature unto this one, just as men come out of some other city, to some much frequented mart; some being slaves to glory, others to money; and there are some few who, taking no account of anything else, earnestly look into the nature of things; and these men call themselves studious of wisdom, that is, philosophers: and as there it is the most reputable occupation of all to be a looker-on without making any acquisition, so in life, the contemplating things, and acquainting one’s self with them, greatly exceeds every other pursuit of life.”  
        ^ 
          Cameron, Alister (1938). The Pythagorean Background of the theory of Recollection. George Banta Publishing Company.  
        ^ Jaeger, W. 'On the Origin and Cycle of the Philosophic Ideal of Life.' First published in Sitzungsberichte der preussischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, philosophisch-historishce Klasse, 1928; Eng. Translation in Jaeger's Aristotle, 2nd Ed. Oxford, 1948, 426-61  
        ^ Festugiere, A.J. 'Les Trios Vies', Acta Congressus Madvigiani, vol. 2, Copenhagen, 1958, 131-78  
        ^ 
          Guthrie, W. K. C. (1962–1981). A history of Greek philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;165–166. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-05160-6. OCLC&nbsp;22488892. Archived from the original on 21 January 2022. Retrieved 12 June 2021. This does not of course amount to saying that the simile goes back to Pythagoras himself, but only that the Greek ideal of philosophia and theoria (for which we may compare Herodotus's attribution of these activities to Solon I, 30) was at a fairly early date annexed by the Pythagoreans for their master  
        ^ 
          Adler, Mortimer J. (2000). How to Think About the Great Ideas: From the Great Books of Western Civilization. Chicago, Ill.: Open Court. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8126-9412-3.  
        ^ 
          Quinton, Anthony, The ethics of philosophical practice, p.&nbsp;666, Philosophy is rationally critical thinking, of a more or less systematic kind about the general nature of the world (metaphysics or theory of existence), the justification of belief (epistemology or theory of knowledge), and the conduct of life (ethics or theory of value). Each of the three elements in this list has a non-philosophical counterpart, from which it is distinguished by its explicitly rational and critical way of proceeding and by its systematic nature. Everyone has some general conception of the nature of the world in which they live and of their place in it. Metaphysics replaces the unargued assumptions embodied in such a conception with a rational and organized body of beliefs about the world as a whole. Everyone has occasion to doubt and question beliefs, their own or those of others, with more or less success and without any theory of what they are doing. Epistemology seeks by argument to make explicit the rules of correct belief formation. Everyone governs their conduct by directing it to desired or valued ends. Ethics, or moral philosophy, in its most inclusive sense, seeks to articulate, in rationally systematic form, the rules or principles involved. in Honderich 1995.  
        ^ a b "The English word "philosophy" is first attested to c. 1300, meaning "knowledge, body of knowledge." Harper, Douglas. 2020. "philosophy (n.) Archived 2 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine." Online Etymology Dictionary. Retrieved 8 May 2020.  
        ^ a b Lindberg 2007, p.&nbsp;3.  
        ^ 
          Shapin, Steven (1998). The Scientific Revolution (1st&nbsp;ed.). University Of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-75021-7.  
        ^ 
          Briggle, Robert; Frodeman, Adam (11 January 2016). "When Philosophy Lost Its Way | The Opinionator". New York Times. Archived from the original on 5 March 2020. Retrieved 25 April 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Metaphysics". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.  
        ^ 
          "Epistemology". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 May 2020. Retrieved 8 May 2020.  
        ^ 
          "Philosophy and Other Fields – Philosophy". Archived from the original on 1 February 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          Kant, Immanuel (2012). Kant: Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9781107401068. Ancient Greek philosophy was divided into three branches of knowledge: natural science, ethics, and logic.  
        ^ 
          Del Soldato, Eva (2020). "Natural Philosophy in the Renaissance". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Moral Philosophy". Ethics Unwrapped. Archived from the original on 27 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Metaphysics - By Branch / Doctrine - The Basics of Philosophy". www.philosophybasics.com. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ Sextus Empiricus, Against the Logicians, Book I, Section 16  
        ^ Cicero, Academica Book I Section 1.  
        ^ 
          Garfield, Jay L; Edelglass, William, eds. (9 June 2011). "Introduction". The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780195328998.001.0001. ISBN&nbsp;9780195328998. Archived from the original on 31 March 2019. Retrieved 19 December 2019.  
        ^ 
          Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich; Brown, Robert F. (2006). Lectures on the History of Philosophy: Greek philosophy. Clarendon Press. p.&nbsp;33. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-927906-7.  
        ^ a b c d 
          "By Historical Period - The Basics of Philosophy". www.philosophybasics.com. Archived from the original on 26 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ Process and Reality p. 39  
        ^ 
          Collinson, Diane. Fifty Major Philosophers, A Reference Guide. p.&nbsp;125.  
        ^ Philosophy before the Greeks. The Pursuit of Truth in Ancient Babylonia (2015), pp. vii-viii, 187-188. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691157184  
        ^ Philosophy before the Greeks. The Pursuit of Truth in Ancient Babylonia (2015), p. 218. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691157184  
        ^ Lichtheim, Miriam. "Ancient Egyptian Literature, Volume II: The New Kingdom", pp. 61 ff. University of California Press, 1976, ISBN 0-520-03615-8  
        ^ Najovits, Simson (2004). Egypt, the Trunk of the Tree, A Modern Survey of and Ancient Land, Vol. II. p. 131. New York: Algora Publishing. ISBN 978-0875862569.  
        ^ a b Assmann, Jan. Theological Responses to Amarna. Archived 18 May 2020 at the Wayback Machine Originalveröffentlichung in: Gary N. Knoppers, Antoine Hirsch (Hg.), Egypt, Israel, and the Ancient Mediterranean World. Studies in Honor of Donald B. Redford, Leiden/Boston 2004, S. 179-191  
        ^ Gutas, Dimitri (1998). Greek Thought, Arabic Culture: The Graeco-Arabic Translation Movement in Baghdad and Early Abbasid Society (2nd-4th/8th-10th centuries). Routledge. pp. 1–26.  
        ^ Cooper, William W.; Yue, Piyu (2008). Challenges of the Muslim world: present, future and past. Emerald Group Publishing. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0-444-53243-5. Retrieved 2014-04-11.  
        ^ 
          N.V. Isaeva (1992). Shankara and Indian Philosophy. State University of New York Press. pp.&nbsp;1–5. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7914-1281-7. OCLC&nbsp;24953669. Archived from the original on 14 January 2020. Retrieved 11 November 2018.  
        ^ 
          John Koller (2013). Chad Meister and Paul Copan (ed.). Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Religion. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9780203813010-17 (inactive 31 October 2021). ISBN&nbsp;978-1-136-69685-5. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018. Retrieved 13 November 2018.}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of October 2021 (link)  
        ^ Johnson, W. J. 2009. "darśana Archived 9 March 2021 at the Wayback Machine." Oxford Reference. From: "darśan(a) Archived 3 September 2020 at the Wayback Machine." In A Dictionary of Hinduism, edited by W. J. Johnson. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;9780191726705. doi:10.1093/acref/9780198610250.001.0001.  
        ^ 
          Young, William A. (2005). The World's Religions: Worldviews and Contemporary Issues. Pearson Prentice Hall. pp.&nbsp;61–64, 78–79. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-183010-3. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 10 November 2018.  
        ^ 
          Mittal, Sushil; Thursby, Gene (2017). Religions of India: An Introduction. Taylor &amp; Francis. pp.&nbsp;3–5, 15–18, 53–55, 63–67, 85–88, 93–98, 107–15. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-134-79193-4. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 11 November 2018.  
        ^ Bowker, John. Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. p. 259.  
        ^ 
          Doniger, Wendy (2014). On Hinduism. Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;46. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-936008-6. Archived from the original on 30 January 2017. Retrieved 25 December 2016.  
        ^ 
          Kesarcodi-Watson, Ian (1978). "Hindu Metaphysics and Its Philosophies: Śruti and Darsána". International Philosophical Quarterly. 18 (4): 413–432. doi:10.5840/ipq197818440.  
        ^ Chadha, M. 2015. The Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Philosophy of Religion, edited by G. Oppy. London: Routledge, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-1844658312. pp. 127–28.  
        ^ 
          Frazier, Jessica (2011). The Continuum companion to Hindu studies. London: Continuum. pp.&nbsp;1–15. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8264-9966-0.  
        ^ Olson, Carl. 2007. The Many Colors of Hinduism: A Thematic-historical Introduction. Rutgers University Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0813540689. pp. 101–19.  
        ^ Deutsch, Eliot. 2000. Pp. 245–48 in Philosophy of Religion: Indian Philosophy 4, edited by R. Perrett. Routledge, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0815336112.  
        ^ Grimes, John A. A Concise Dictionary of Indian Philosophy: Sanskrit Terms Defined in English. Albany: State University of New York Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0791430675. p. 238.  
        ^ Hiltebeitel, Alf. 2007. "Hinduism." In The Religious Traditions of Asia: Religion, History, and Culture, edited by J. Kitagawa. London: Routledge.  
        ^ Minor, Robert. 1986. Modern Indian Interpreters of the Bhagavad Gita. Albany: State University of New York Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-88706-297-0. pp. 74–75, 81.  
        ^ 
          Doniger, Wendy (2018) . "Bhagavad Gita". Encyclopædia Britannica. Archived from the original on 21 August 2018. Retrieved 10 November 2018.  
        ^ Cowell and Gough (1882, Translators), The Sarva-Darsana-Samgraha or Review of the Different Systems of Hindu Philosophy by Madhva Acharya, Trubner's Oriental Series  
        ^ a b Bilimoria, P. 2000. Indian Philosophy, edited by R. Perrett. London: Routledge. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-1135703226. p. 88.  
        ^ R Bhattacharya (2011), Studies on the Carvaka/Lokayata, Anthem, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0857284334, pp. 53, 94, 141–142  
        ^ Johannes Bronkhorst (2012), Free will and Indian philosophy, Antiquorum Philosophia: An International Journal, Roma Italy, Volume 6, pp. 19–30  
        ^ James Lochtefeld, "Ajivika", The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Hinduism, Vol. 1: A–M, Rosen Publishing. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0823931798, p. 22  
        ^ AL Basham (2009), History and Doctrines of the Ajivikas – a Vanished Indian Religion, Motilal Banarsidass, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-8120812048, Chapter 1  
        ^ K. N. Jayatilleke. 2010. Early Buddhist Theory of Knowledge, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-8120806191. pp. 246–49, note 385 onwards.  
        ^ Dundas, Paul. 2002. The Jains (2nd ed.). London: Routledge. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0415266055. pp. 1–19, 40–44.  
        ^ 
          Hemacandra (1998). The Lives of the Jain Elders. Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;258–60. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-283227-6. Archived from the original on 23 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.  
        ^ 
          Tiwari, Kedar Nath (1983). Comparative Religion. Motilal Banarsidass. pp.&nbsp;78–83. ISBN&nbsp;978-81-208-0293-3. Archived from the original on 24 December 2016. Retrieved 19 November 2018.  
        ^ 
          Jaini, Padmanabh S. (1998) , The Jaina Path of Purification, Motilal Banarsidass, pp.&nbsp;81–83, ISBN&nbsp;81-208-1578-5, archived from the original on 16 February 2020, retrieved 19 November 2018  
        ^ Umāsvāti 1994 . That Which Is: Tattvartha Sutra Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine, translated by N. Tatia. Harper Collins. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-068985-8. pp. xvii–xviii.  
        ^ Westerhoff, Jan, The Golden Age of Indian Buddhist Philosophy, Oxford University Press, 2018, p. 13.  
        ^ a b c Westerhoff, Jan. 2018. The Golden Age of Indian Buddhist Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
        ^ 
          Buswell Jr., Robert E.; Lopez Jr., Donald S. (2013). The Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism. Princeton University Press. pp.&nbsp;42–47. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4008-4805-8. Archived from the original on 17 May 2020. Retrieved 10 November 2018.  
        ^ Dreyfus, Georges B. J. Recognizing Reality: Dharmakirti's Philosophy and Its Tibetan Interpretations (Suny Series in Buddhist Studies), 1997, p. 22.  
        ^ JeeLoo Liu, Tian-tai Metaphysics vs. Hua-yan Metaphysics A Comparative Study  
        ^ Garfield, Jay L., and William Edelglass, eds. 2011. "Chinese Philosophy." The Oxford Handbook of World Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;9780195328998.  
        ^ 
          Ebrey, Patricia (2010). The Cambridge Illustrated History of China. New York: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;42.  
        ^ 
          Barbara O, Brien (25 June 2019). "How Buddhism Came to China: A History of the First Thousand Years". Learn Religions. Archived from the original on 27 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Chinese Religions and Philosophies". Asia Society. Archived from the original on 16 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ Perez, Louis G. (1998). The History of Japan, pp. 57–59. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0-313-30296-1.  
        ^ Janz, Bruce B. 2009. Philosophy in an African Place. Plymouth, UK: Lexington Books. pp. 74–79.  
        ^ a b Whiteley, Peter M. 1998. "Native American philosophy Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine." Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Taylor &amp; Francis. doi:10.4324/9780415249126-N078-1.  
        ^ Pierotti, Raymond. 2003. "Communities as both Ecological and Social entities in Native American thought." Native American Symposium 5. Durant, OK: Southeastern Oklahoma State University. Archived from the original 4 April 2016.  
        ^ 
          Portilla, Miguel León (1990). Use of "Tlamatini" in Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind – Miguel León Portilla. ISBN&nbsp;9780806122953. Archived from the original on 17 December 2019. Retrieved 12 December 2014.  
        ^ a b Leonardo Esteban Figueroa Helland (2012). Indigenous Philosophy and World Politics: Cosmopolitical Contributions from across the Americas. Archived 18 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine Arizona State University.  
        ^ a b c d Maffie, James. Why Care about Nezahualcoyotl? Veritism and Nahua Philosophy Archived 18 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine. Philosophy of the Social Sciences, Vol. 32 No. 1, March 2002 71-91 © 2002 Sage Publications.  
        ^ a b 
          "Aztec Philosophy". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 25 May 2020. Retrieved 25 December 2016.  
        ^ a b Yeakel, John A. Accountant-Historians of the Incas. Archived 12 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine Accounting Historians Journal Volume 10 Issue 2 Fall 1983 Article 3 1983.  
        ^ a b Adames, Hector Y.; Chavez-Dueñas, Nayeli Y. (2016) Cultural Foundations and Interventions in Latino/a Mental Health: History, Theory and within Group Differences. pp. 20-21. Routledge.  
        ^ a b c Maffie, James. "Pre-Columbian Philosophies", in Nuccetelli, Susana; Schutte, Ofelia; Bueno, Otávio (2013) A Companion to Latin American Philosophy, Wiley Blackwell.  
        ^ Webb, Hillary S. 2012. Yanantin and Masintin in the Andean World: Complementary Dualism in Modern Peru.  
        ^ Duran, Jane. Eight women philosophers: theory, politics, and feminism. University of Illinois Press, 2005.  
        ^ 
          "Why I Left Academia: Philosophy's Homogeneity Needs Rethinking – Hippo Reads". Archived from the original on 9 June 2017.  
        ^ 
          Haldane, John (June 2000). "In Memoriam: G. E. M. Anscombe (1919–2001)". The Review of Metaphysics. 53 (4): 1019–1021. JSTOR&nbsp;20131480.  
        ^ "Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Status of Minority and Women Faculty in U.S. Colleges and Universities."National Center for Education Statistics, Statistical Analysis Report, March 2000; U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 2000–173; 1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF:93). See also "Characteristics and Attitudes of Instructional Faculty and Staff in the Humanities." National Center For Education Statistics, E.D. Tabs, July 1997. U.S. Department of Education, Office of Education Research and Improvement, Report # NCES 97-973;1993 National Study of Postsecondary Faculty (NSOPF-93).  
        ^ 
          McGinn, Colin (1993). Problems in Philosophy: The Limits of Inquiry (1st&nbsp;ed.). Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55786-475-8.  
        ^ Chalmers, David. 7 May 2013. "Why isn't there more progress in philosophy? Archived 12 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine" . Moral Sciences Club. Faculty of Philosophy, University of Cambridge. Retrieved 8 May 2020.  
        ^ 
          Brewer, Talbot (2011). The Retrieval of Ethics (1st&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-969222-4.  
        ^ 
          Plantinga, Alvin (2014). Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Religion and Science (Spring 2014&nbsp;ed.). Archived from the original on 18 March 2019. Retrieved 25 April 2016.  
        ^ Kelly (1998) p. ix  
        ^ Review Archived 31 January 2017 at the Wayback Machine by Tom Riedel (Regis University)  
        ^ “Aesthetic.” Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Retrieved 9 May 2020.  
        ^ Zangwill, Nick. 2019 . "Aesthetic Judgment Archived 2 August 2019 at the Wayback Machine" (revised ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 9 May 2020.  
        ^ "aesthetic Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine." Lexico. Oxford University Press and Dictionary.com.  
        ^ a b 
          "Ethics". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 18 January 2018. Retrieved 6 July 2020.  
        ^ a b c d 
          "Major Ethical Perspectives". saylordotorg.github.io. Archived from the original on 21 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Epistemology". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on 10 July 2019. Retrieved 22 June 2020.  
        ^ a b c d 
          "Epistemology". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 21 July 2020. Retrieved 30 June 2020.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Steup, Matthias; Neta, Ram (2020). "Epistemology". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 20 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          van Inwagen, Peter; Sullivan, Meghan (2020). "Metaphysics". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. Archived from the original on 16 September 2018. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          Alina, Bradford (July 2017). "Deductive Reasoning vs. Inductive Reasoning". livescience.com. Archived from the original on 28 January 2021. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          Carnap, Rudolf (1953). "Inductive Logic and Science". Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 80 (3): 189–197. doi:10.2307/20023651. JSTOR&nbsp;20023651.  
        ^ a b 
          "Political Philosophy - By Branch / Doctrine - The Basics of Philosophy". www.philosophybasics.com. Archived from the original on 11 November 2020. Retrieved 21 January 2021.  
        ^ 
          Schroeder, Mark (2021), "Value Theory", in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2021&nbsp;ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, archived from the original on 31 March 2021, retrieved 27 March 2021, In its broadest sense, “value theory” is a catch-all label used to encompass all branches of moral philosophy, social and political philosophy, aesthetics, and sometimes feminist philosophy and the philosophy of religion — whatever areas of philosophy are deemed to encompass some “evaluative” aspect.  
        ^ Louth, Andrew, and Helmut Thielicke. 2014 . "Relationship to Philosophy | Theology Archived 6 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine." Encyclopædia Britannica.  
        ^ 
          Charles L. Griswold Jr. (2010). Platonic Writings/Platonic Readings. Penn State Press. pp.&nbsp;144–146. ISBN&nbsp;978-0271044811. Archived from the original on 1 July 2020. Retrieved 26 July 2021. }: External link in |author= (help)  
        ^ 
          Martin Heidegger (1956). Was Ist Das – die Philosophie?. Rowman &amp; Littlefield. p.&nbsp;21. ISBN&nbsp;978-0808403197. Archived from the original on 12 August 2021. Retrieved 26 July 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Where Can Philosophy Take Me? | Philosophy". philosophy.as.uky.edu. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Why Study Philosophy? An Unofficial "Daily Nous" Affiliate". www.whystudyphilosophy.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.  
        ^ 
          Cropper, Carol Marie (26 December 1997). "Philosophers Find the Degree Pays Off in Life And in Work". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Archived from the original on 28 January 2017. Retrieved 2 May 2016.  
        ^ 
          Marketing, Mansfield University Department of. "Famous Philosophy Majors | Mansfield University". www.mansfield.edu. Archived from the original on 31 March 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.  
        ^ 
          W, Justin (8 December 2014). "Famous Philosophy Majors Poster (updated with new link)". Daily Nous. Archived from the original on 14 May 2016. Retrieved 2 May 2016.  
        ^ 
          White, Curtis (2014). The Science Delusion: Asking the Big Questions in a Culture of Easy Answers. Brooklyn, NY: Melville House. ISBN&nbsp;9781612193908.  
        ^ 
          Schuessler, Jennifer (4 October 2016). "Canadian Philosopher Wins $1 Million Prize". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Archived from the original on 15 December 2017. Retrieved 4 October 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Socrates Tenured – Rowman &amp; Littlefield International". www.rowmaninternational.com. Archived from the original on 9 May 2016. Retrieved 25 April 2016.  
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
       
        
        
         
          Edwards, Paul, ed. (1967). The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Macmillan &amp; Free Press. 
         
          Kant, Immanuel (1881). Critique of Pure Reason. Macmillan. 
         
          Bowker, John (1999). The Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press, Incorporated. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-866242-6. 
         
          Baldwin, Thomas, ed. (2003). The Cambridge History of Philosophy 1870–1945. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-59104-1. 
         
          Copenhaver, Brian P.; Schmitt, Charles B. (1992). Renaissance philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-219203-5. 
         
          Lindberg, David C. (2007). "Science before the Greeks". The beginnings of Western science: the European Scientific tradition in philosophical, religious, and institutional context (Second&nbsp;ed.). Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press. pp.&nbsp;1–27. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-48205-7. 
         
          Nadler, Steven (2008). A Companion to Early Modern Philosophy. John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-99883-0. 
         
          Rutherford, Donald (2006). The Cambridge Companion to Early Modern Philosophy. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-82242-8. 
         
          Schmitt, C.B.; Skinner, Quentin, eds. (1988). The Cambridge History of Renaissance Philosophy. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-39748-3. 
         
          Kenny, Anthony (2012). A New History of Western Philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-958988-3. 
         
          Honderich, T., ed. (1995). The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-866132-0. 
         
          Bunnin, Nicholas; Tsui-James, Eric, eds. (2008). The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy. John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-99787-1. 
         
          Copleston, Frederick Charles (1953). A history of philosophy: volume III: Ockham to Suárez. Paulist Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8091-0067-5. 
         
          Leaman, Oliver; Morewedge, Parviz (2000). "Islamic philosophy modern". In Craig, Edward (ed.). Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Psychology Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-22364-5. 
         
          Buccellati, Giorgio (1981). "Wisdom and Not: The Case of Mesopotamia". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 101 (1): 35–47. doi:10.2307/602163. JSTOR&nbsp;602163.
        
        
       
      Further reading 
      General introduction 
      
       
       
        
         Aristotle (1941). Richard McKeon (ed.). The Basic Works of Aristotle. New York: Random House. 
        Blumenau, Ralph. Philosophy and Living. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-907845-33-1 
        Craig, Edward. Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-285421-6 
        Harrison-Barbet, Anthony, Mastering Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-333-69343-8 
        Russell, Bertrand. The Problems of Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-511552-9 
        Sinclair, Alistair J. What is Philosophy? An Introduction, 2008, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-1-903765-94-4 
        Sober, Elliott. (2001). Core Questions in Philosophy: A Text with Readings. Upper Saddle River, Prentice Hall. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-189869-1 
        Solomon, Robert C. Big Questions: A Short Introduction to Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-534-16708-0 
        Warburton, Nigel. Philosophy: The Basics. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-14694-4 
        Nagel, Thomas. What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-505292-3 
        Classics of Philosophy (Vols. 1, 2, &amp; 3) by Louis P. Pojman 
        Cottingham, John. Western Philosophy: An Anthology. 2nd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Pub., 2008. Print. Blackwell Philosophy Anthologies. 
        Tarnas, Richard. The Passion of the Western Mind: Understanding the Ideas That Have Shaped Our World View. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-345-36809-6
        
       
      Topical introductions 
      
       
       African 
       
        Imbo, Samuel Oluoch. An Introduction to African Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8476-8841-8
        
       Eastern 
       
        A Source Book in Indian Philosophy by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Charles A. Moore 
        Hamilton, Sue. Indian Philosophy: a Very Short Introduction. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-285374-5 
        Kupperman, Joel J. Classic Asian Philosophy: A Guide to the Essential Texts. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-513335-6 
        Lee, Joe and Powell, Jim. Eastern Philosophy For Beginners. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-86316-282-4 
        Smart, Ninian. World Philosophies. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-22852-7 
        Copleston, Frederick. Philosophy in Russia: From Herzen to Lenin and Berdyaev. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-268-01569-5
        
       Islamic 
       
        Medieval Islamic Philosophical Writings edited by Muhammad Ali Khalidi 
        
         Leaman, Oliver (14 April 2000). A Brief Introduction to Islamic Philosophy. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7456-1960-6. 
        
         Corbin, Henry (23 June 2014) . History Of Islamic Philosophy. Translated by Sherrard, Liadain; Sherrard, Philip. Taylor &amp; Francis. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-135-19888-6. 
        
         Aminrazavi, Mehdi Amin Razavi; Nasr, Seyyed Hossein; Nasr, PH.D., Seyyed Hossein (16 December 2013). The Islamic Intellectual Tradition in Persia. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-136-78105-6.
        
       
      Historical introductions 
      
       
       General 
       
        
         Oizerman, Teodor (1988). The Main Trends in Philosophy. A Theoretical Analysis of the History of Philosophy (PDF). translated by H. Campbell Creighton, M.A., Oxon (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Moscow: Progress Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-5-01-000506-1. Archived from the original (DjVu, etc.) on 6 March 2012. Retrieved 20 January 2011First published in Russian as «Главные философские направления»}: CS1 maint: postscript (link) 
        Higgins, Kathleen M. and Solomon, Robert C. A Short History of Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-510196-6 
        Durant, Will, Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers, Pocket, 1991, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-671-73916-4 
        
         Oizerman, Teodor (1973). Problems of the History of Philosophy. translated from Russian by Robert Daglish (1st&nbsp;ed.). Moscow: Progress Publishers. Archived from the original on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 20 January 2011First published in Russian as «Проблемы историко-философской науки»}: CS1 maint: postscript (link)
        
       Ancient 
       
        Knight, Kelvin. Aristotelian Philosophy: Ethics and Politics from Aristotle to MacIntyre. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7456-1977-4
        
       Medieval 
       
        The Phenomenology Reader by Dermot Moran, Timothy Mooney 
        Kim, J. and Ernest Sosa, Ed. (1999). Metaphysics: An Anthology. Blackwell Philosophy Anthologies. Oxford, Blackwell Publishers Ltd. 
        
         Husserl, Edmund; Welton, Donn (1999). The Essential Husserl: Basic Writings in Transcendental Phenomenology. Indiana University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-253-21273-3.
        
       Modern &amp; contemporary 
       
        The English Philosophers from Bacon to Mill by Edwin Arthur 
        European Philosophers from Descartes to Nietzsche by Monroe Beardsley 
        Existentialism: Basic Writings (Second Edition) by Charles Guignon, Derk Pereboom 
        Curley, Edwin, A Spinoza Reader, Princeton, 1994, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-00067-1 
        Bullock, Alan, R.B. Woodings, and John Cumming, eds. The Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thinkers, in series, Fontana Original. Hammersmith, Eng.: Fontana Press, 1992 . xxv, 867 p. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-00-636965-3 
        Scruton, Roger. A Short History of Modern Philosophy. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-26763-2 
        Contemporary Analytic Philosophy: Core Readings by James Baillie 
        Appiah, Kwame Anthony. Thinking it Through&nbsp;&nbsp;– An Introduction to Contemporary Philosophy, 2003, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-513458-2 
        Critchley, Simon. Continental Philosophy: A Very Short Introduction. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-285359-2
        
       
      Reference works 
      
       
       
        
         Chan, Wing-tsit (1963). A Source Book in Chinese Philosophy. Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-01964-2. 
        
         Huang, Siu-chi (1999). Essentials of Neo-Confucianism: Eight Major Philosophers of the Song and Ming Periods. Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-313-26449-8. 
        The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy by Robert Audi 
        The Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy (10 vols.) edited by Edward Craig, Luciano Floridi (available online by subscription); or 
        The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy edited by Edward Craig (an abridgement) 
        
         Edwards, Paul, ed. (1967). The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Macmillan &amp; Free Press.; in 1996, a ninth supplemental volume appeared that updated the classic 1967 encyclopedia. 
        International Directory of Philosophy and Philosophers. Charlottesville, Philosophy Documentation Center. 
        Directory of American Philosophers. Charlottesville, Philosophy Documentation Center. 
        Routledge History of Philosophy (10 vols.) edited by John Marenbon 
        History of Philosophy (9 vols.) by Frederick Copleston 
        A History of Western Philosophy (5 vols.) by W.T. Jones 
        History of Italian Philosophy (2 vols.) by Eugenio Garin. Translated from Italian and Edited by Giorgio Pinton. Introduction by Leon Pompa. 
        Encyclopaedia of Indian Philosophies (8 vols.), edited by Karl H. Potter et al. (first 6 volumes out of print) 
        Indian Philosophy (2 vols.) by Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan 
        A History of Indian Philosophy (5 vols.) by Surendranath Dasgupta 
        History of Chinese Philosophy (2 vols.) by Fung Yu-lan, Derk Bodde 
        Instructions for Practical Living and Other Neo-Confucian Writings by Wang Yang-ming by Chan, Wing-tsit 
        Encyclopedia of Chinese Philosophy edited by Antonio S. Cua 
        Encyclopedia of Eastern Philosophy and Religion by Ingrid Fischer-Schreiber, Franz-Karl Ehrhard, Kurt Friedrichs 
        Companion Encyclopedia of Asian Philosophy by Brian Carr, Indira Mahalingam 
        A Concise Dictionary of Indian Philosophy: Sanskrit Terms Defined in English by John A. Grimes 
        History of Islamic Philosophy edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Oliver Leaman 
        History of Jewish Philosophy edited by Daniel H. Frank, Oliver Leaman 
        A History of Russian Philosophy: From the Tenth to the Twentieth Centuries by Valerii Aleksandrovich Kuvakin 
        Ayer, A.J. et al., Ed. (1994) A Dictionary of Philosophical Quotations. Blackwell Reference Oxford. Oxford, Basil Blackwell Ltd. 
        Blackburn, S., Ed. (1996)The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
        Mautner, T., Ed. The Penguin Dictionary of Philosophy. London, Penguin Books. 
        Runes, D., Ed. (1942). The Dictionary of Philosophy Archived 24 April 2014 at the Wayback Machine. New York, The Philosophical Library, Inc. 
        Angeles, P.A., Ed. (1992). The Harper Collins Dictionary of Philosophy. New York, Harper Perennial. 
        
         Bunnin, Nicholas; Tsui-James, Eric, eds. (15 April 2008). The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy. John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-99787-1. 
        Hoffman, Eric, Ed. (1997) Guidebook for Publishing Philosophy. Charlottesville, Philosophy Documentation Center. 
        Popkin, R.H. (1999). The Columbia History of Western Philosophy. New York, Columbia University Press. 
        Bullock, Alan, and Oliver Stallybrass, jt. eds. The Harper Dictionary of Modern Thought. New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1977. xix, 684 p. N.B.: "First published in England under the title, The Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought." 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-010578-5 
        Reese, W.L. Dictionary of Philosophy and Religion: Eastern and Western Thought. Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities Press, 1980. iv, 644 p. 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0-391-00688-1
        
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Philosophyat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Philosophy 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library 
           Resources in other libraries
           
        
       
       
        
      
       Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project 
       PhilPapers – a comprehensive directory of online philosophical articles and books by academic philosophers 
       Philosophy Timeline 
       Philosophy Magazines and Journals 
       Philosophy at Curlie 
       Philosophy (review) 
       Philosophy Documentation Center 
       Popular Philosophy
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Branches
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Traditional
                  
                    
                    
                     Axiology 
                      
                       Aesthetics 
                       Ethics
                       
                     Epistemology 
                     Logic 
                     Metaphysics 
                      
                       Ontology
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of...
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Art 
                      
                       Design 
                       Music 
                       Film
                       
                     Color 
                     Cosmology 
                     Culture 
                     Education 
                     Environment 
                     Geography 
                     History 
                     Human nature 
                     Feminism 
                     Language 
                     Law 
                     Life 
                     Literature 
                     Logic 
                     Mathematics 
                     Medicine 
                      
                       Healthcare 
                       Psychiatry
                       
                     Mind 
                      
                       Pain 
                       Happiness 
                       Humor 
                       Psychology
                       
                     Perception 
                     Philosophy 
                     Religion 
                     Science 
                      
                       Physics 
                       Chemistry 
                       Biology
                       
                     Sexuality 
                     Social science 
                      
                       Business 
                       Economics 
                       Politics 
                       Society
                       
                     Space and time 
                     Sport 
                     Technology 
                      
                       Artificial intelligence 
                       Computer science 
                       Engineering 
                       Information
                       
                     War
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Schools of thought
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By era
                  
                    
                    
                     Ancient 
                     Western 
                      
                       Medieval 
                       Renaissance 
                       Early modern 
                       Modern 
                       Contemporary
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ancient
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Chinese
                      
                        
                        
                         Agriculturalism 
                         Confucianism 
                         Legalism 
                         Logicians 
                         Mohism 
                         Chinese naturalism 
                         Neotaoism 
                         Taoism 
                         Yangism 
                         Chan
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Greco-Roman 
                      
                        
                        
                         Aristotelianism 
                         Atomism 
                         Cynicism 
                         Cyrenaics 
                         Eleatics 
                         Eretrian school 
                         Epicureanism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Ionian 
                          
                           Ephesian 
                           Milesian
                           
                         Megarian school 
                         Neoplatonism 
                         Peripatetic 
                         Platonism 
                         Pluralism 
                         Presocratic 
                         Pyrrhonism 
                         Pythagoreanism 
                         Neopythagoreanism 
                         Sophistic 
                         Stoicism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Hindu 
                         Samkhya 
                         Nyaya 
                         Vaisheshika 
                         Yoga 
                         Mīmāṃsā 
                         Ājīvika 
                         Ajñana 
                         Cārvāka 
                         Jain 
                          
                           Anekantavada 
                           Syādvāda
                           
                         Buddhist 
                          
                           Śūnyatā 
                           Madhyamaka 
                           Yogacara 
                           Sautrāntika 
                           Svatantrika
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Persian
                      
                        
                        
                         Mazdakism 
                         Mithraism 
                         Zoroastrianism 
                         Zurvanism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Medieval
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      European
                      
                        
                        
                         Christian 
                          Augustinianism 
                         Scholasticism 
                         Thomism 
                         Scotism 
                         Occamism 
                         Renaissance humanism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      East Asian
                      
                        
                        
                         Korean Confucianism 
                         Edo neo-Confucianism 
                         Neo-Confucianism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Vedanta 
                          
                           Acintya bheda abheda 
                           Advaita 
                           Bhedabheda 
                           Dvaita 
                           Nimbarka Sampradaya 
                           Shuddhadvaita 
                           Vishishtadvaita
                           
                         Navya-Nyāya
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Islamic
                      
                        
                        
                         Averroism 
                         Avicennism 
                         Illuminationism 
                         ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                         Sufi
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Jewish
                      
                        
                        
                         Judeo-Islamic
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Modern
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      People
                      
                        
                        
                         Cartesianism 
                         Kantianism 
                          
                           Neo
                           
                         Kierkegaardianism 
                         Krausism 
                         Hegelianism 
                         Marxism 
                         Newtonianism 
                         Nietzscheanism 
                         Spinozism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      0
                      
                        
                        
                         Anarchism 
                         Classical Realism 
                         Liberalism 
                         Collectivism 
                         Conservatism 
                         Determinism 
                         Dualism 
                         Empiricism 
                         Existentialism 
                         Foundationalism 
                         Historicism 
                         Holism 
                         Humanism 
                          
                           Anti-
                           
                         Idealism 
                          
                           Absolute 
                           British 
                           German 
                           Objective 
                           Subjective 
                           Transcendental
                           
                         Individualism 
                         Kokugaku 
                         Materialism 
                         Modernism 
                         Monism 
                         Naturalism 
                         Natural law 
                         Nihilism 
                         New Confucianism 
                         Neo-scholasticism 
                         Pragmatism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Positivism 
                         Reductionism 
                         Rationalism 
                         Social contract 
                         Socialism 
                         Transcendentalism 
                         Utilitarianism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Contemporary
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Analytic
                      
                        
                        
                         Applied ethics 
                         Analytic feminism 
                         Analytical Marxism 
                         Communitarianism 
                         Consequentialism 
                         Critical rationalism 
                         Experimental philosophy 
                         Falsificationism 
                         Foundationalism&nbsp;/ Coherentism 
                         Internalism and externalism 
                         Logical positivism 
                         Legal positivism 
                         Normative ethics 
                         Meta-ethics 
                         Moral realism 
                         Quinean naturalism 
                         Ordinary language philosophy 
                         Postanalytic philosophy 
                         Quietism 
                         Rawlsian 
                         Reformed epistemology 
                         Systemics 
                         Scientism 
                         Scientific realism 
                         Scientific skepticism 
                         Transactionalism 
                         Contemporary utilitarianism 
                         Vienna Circle 
                         Wittgensteinian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Continental
                      
                        
                        
                         Critical theory 
                         Deconstruction 
                         Existentialism 
                         Feminist 
                         Frankfurt School 
                         New Historicism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Neo-Marxism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Posthumanism 
                         Postmodernism 
                         Post-structuralism 
                         Social constructionism 
                         Structuralism 
                         Western Marxism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Other
                      
                        
                        
                         Kyoto School 
                         Objectivism 
                         Postcritique 
                         Russian cosmism 
                         more...
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Positions
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Aesthetics
                  
                    
                    
                     Formalism 
                     Institutionalism 
                     Aesthetic response
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ethics
                  
                    
                    
                     Consequentialism 
                     Deontology 
                     Virtue
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Free will
                  
                    
                    
                     Compatibilism 
                     Determinism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Incompatibilism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Libertarianism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                  
                    
                    
                     Atomism 
                     Dualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Monism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Epistemology
                  
                    
                    
                     Empiricism 
                     Fideism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Particularism 
                     Rationalism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Solipsism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Mind
                  
                    
                    
                     Behaviorism 
                     Emergentism 
                     Eliminativism 
                     Epiphenomenalism 
                     Functionalism 
                     Objectivism 
                     Subjectivism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Normativity
                  
                    
                    
                     Absolutism 
                     Particularism 
                     Relativism 
                     Nihilism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Universalism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ontology
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Event 
                     Process
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Reality
                  
                    
                    
                     Anti-realism 
                     Conceptualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Materialism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Nominalism 
                     Physicalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  Related lists
                  Miscellaneous
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      African
                      
                        
                        
                         Bantu 
                         Egyptian 
                         Ethiopian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Chinese 
                         Indian 
                         Indonesian 
                         Japanese 
                         Korean 
                         Taiwanese 
                         Pakistani 
                         Vietnamese
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Middle Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Iranian 
                         Jewish 
                         Turkish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Western
                      
                        
                        
                         American 
                         Australian 
                         British 
                          
                           Scottish
                           
                         Canada 
                         Czech 
                         Danish 
                         Dutch 
                         French 
                         German 
                         Greek 
                         Italian 
                         Maltese 
                         Polish 
                         Slovene 
                         Spanish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Miscellaneous
                      
                        
                        
                         Amerindian 
                         Aztec 
                         Yugoslav 
                         Romanian 
                         Russian
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Lists
                  
                    
                    
                     Outline 
                     Index 
                     Years 
                     Problems 
                     Schools 
                     Glossary 
                     Philosophers 
                     Movements 
                     Publications
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                    
                    
                     Natural law 
                     Sage 
                     Theoretical philosophy&nbsp;/ Practical philosophy 
                     Women in philosophy
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portal 
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Humanities
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Anthropology 
             Digital humanities 
             History 
             Law 
             Literature 
             Performing arts 
             Politics 
             Philosophy 
             Religious studies 
             Visual arts
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Worldview
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related terms
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Basic beliefs / Beliefs 
                 Collective consciousness / Collective unconscious 
                 Conceptual system 
                 Context 
                 Conventional wisdom 
                 Conventions 
                 Cultural movement 
                 Epic poetry / National epics / World folk-epics 
                 Facts and factoids 
                 Framing 
                 Ideology 
                 Life stance 
                 Lifestyle 
                 Memes / Memeplex 
                 Mental model 
                 Metanarrative 
                 Mindset 
                 Norms 
                 Paradigm 
                 Philosophical theory 
                 Point of view 
                 Presuppositions 
                 Reality tunnel 
                 Schemata 
                 School of thought 
                 Set 
                 Social reality 
                 Theory of everything 
                 Umwelt 
                 Value system
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Aspects
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Biases
                  
                    
                    
                     Academic 
                     Attentional 
                     Attitude polarization 
                     Belief 
                     Cognitive 
                      
                       list
                       
                     Collective narcissism 
                     Confirmation 
                     Congruence 
                     Cryptomnesia 
                     Cultural 
                     Ethnocentrism 
                     Filter bubble 
                     Homophily 
                     In-group favoritism 
                     Magical thinking 
                     Media 
                     Observational error 
                     Observer-expectancy 
                     Selective exposure 
                     Selective perception 
                     Self-deception 
                     Self-fulfilling prophecy 
                      
                       Clever Hans effect 
                       placebo effect 
                       wishful thinking
                       
                     Status quo 
                     Stereotyping 
                      
                       ethnic
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Change andmaintenance
                  
                    
                    
                     Activism 
                     Argument 
                     Argumentum ad populum 
                     Attitude change 
                     Brainwashing 
                     Censorship 
                     Charisma 
                     Circular reporting 
                     Cognitive dissonance 
                     Critical thinking 
                     Crowd manipulation 
                     Cultural dissonance 
                     Deprogramming 
                     Echo chamber 
                     Education 
                      
                       religious 
                       values
                       
                     Euphemism 
                     Excommunication 
                     Fearmongering 
                     Historical revisionism 
                      
                       negationism
                       
                     Ideological repression 
                     Indoctrination 
                     Media manipulation 
                     Media regulation 
                     Missionaries 
                     Moral entrepreneurship 
                     Persuasion 
                     Polite fiction 
                     Political engineering 
                     Propaganda 
                     Propaganda model 
                     Proselytism 
                     Psychological manipulation 
                     Psychological warfare 
                     Religious conversion 
                      
                       forced
                       
                     Religious persecution 
                     Religious uniformity 
                     Revolutions 
                     Rhetoric 
                     Self-censorship 
                     Social change 
                     Social control 
                     Social engineering 
                     Social influence 
                     Social progress 
                     Suppression of dissent 
                     Systemic bias 
                     Woozle effect
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Culture
                  
                    
                    
                     Anthropology 
                      
                       cultural 
                       social
                       
                     Calendars 
                     Ceremonies 
                     Coronations 
                     Cross-cultural psychology 
                     Cultural psychology 
                     Doctrine 
                     Employment / Serfdom / Slavery 
                     Families 
                     Funerals / Burial 
                     Games 
                     Holidays 
                     Hygiene 
                      
                       ritual
                       
                     Identity (philosophy) 
                      
                       cultural
                       
                     Institutions 
                     Liminality 
                     Liturgy 
                     Marriage 
                     Myth and ritual 
                     Oaths 
                     Pilgrimages 
                     Play 
                     Rites of passage 
                      
                       secular
                       
                     Rituals 
                     Social class / Social status / Caste 
                     Symbols 
                     Symbolic boundaries 
                     Worship
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Groupthink
                  
                    
                    
                     Abilene paradox 
                     Bandwagon effect 
                     Collectives 
                     Collective behavior 
                      
                       animal
                       
                     Collective effervescence 
                     Collective intelligence 
                     Conformity 
                     Consensus theory 
                     Crowd psychology 
                     Cults 
                     Culture-bound syndromes 
                     Deindividuation 
                     Doublethink 
                     Emergence 
                     Emotional contagion 
                     Entitativity 
                     False consensus effect 
                     Folie à deux 
                     Group action 
                     Group cohesiveness 
                     Group dynamics 
                     Group emotion 
                     Group polarization 
                     Groupshift 
                     Herd behavior 
                     Holism 
                     Hysterical contagion 
                     Information cascade 
                     In-group and out-group 
                     Invisible hand 
                     Lynching 
                     Majoritarianism / Mob rule 
                     Mass action 
                     Mass psychogenic illness 
                     Milieu control 
                     Mobbing 
                     Moral panic 
                     Peer pressure 
                     Pluralistic ignorance 
                     Political correctness 
                     Pseudoconsensus 
                     Scapegoating 
                     Self-organization 
                     Social actions 
                     Social behavior 
                     Social emotions 
                     Social exclusion 
                     Social facilitation 
                      
                       animal
                       
                     Social group 
                     Social proof 
                     Social psychology 
                     Sociology 
                     Spontaneous order 
                     Status quo 
                     Stigmergy 
                     Swarm behaviour 
                     System justification 
                     Viral phenomena
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Knowledge
                  
                    
                    
                     Axioms 
                      
                       tacit assumptions
                       
                     Conceptual framework 
                     Epistemology 
                      
                       outline
                       
                     Evidence 
                      
                       anecdotal 
                       scientific
                       
                     Explanations 
                     Faith 
                      
                       fideism
                       
                     Gnosis 
                     Intuition 
                     Meaning-making 
                     Memory 
                     Metaknowledge 
                     Methodology 
                     Observation 
                     Observational learning 
                     Perception 
                     Reasoning 
                      
                       fallacious 
                       logic
                       
                     Revelation 
                     Testimony 
                     Tradition 
                      
                       folklore
                       
                     Truth 
                      
                       consensus theory 
                       criteria
                       
                     World disclosure
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                  
                    
                    
                     Ætiology 
                     Afterlife 
                     Anima mundi 
                     Being 
                     Causality 
                     Concepts 
                     Consciousness 
                      
                       mind–body problem
                       
                     Cosmogony 
                     Cosmology 
                      
                       religious
                       
                     Creation myth 
                     Deities 
                      
                       existence
                       
                     Destiny 
                     Eschatology 
                     Everything / Nothing 
                     Evolution 
                     Existence 
                     Fiction / Nonfiction 
                     Free will 
                     Future 
                     History 
                     Ideas 
                     Idios kosmos 
                     Illusions 
                     Incarnation 
                     Information 
                     Intelligence 
                     Magic 
                     Matter 
                     Miracles 
                     Mythology 
                      
                       comparative
                       
                     National mythoi 
                     Nature 
                      
                       philosophical
                       
                     Ontology 
                     Origin myths 
                      
                       political
                       
                     Otherworlds 
                      
                       axes mundi
                       
                     Physics 
                      
                       natural philosophy
                       
                     Problem of evil 
                     Reality 
                     Souls 
                     Spirit 
                     Supernature 
                     Teleology 
                     Theology 
                     Time 
                     Unobservables
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Value
                  
                    
                    
                     Æsthetics 
                     Almsgiving / Charity 
                     Altruism 
                     Autonomy 
                     Beauty 
                     Codes of conduct 
                     Comedy 
                     Common good 
                     Conscience 
                     Consent 
                     Creativity 
                     Disgust 
                     Duty 
                     Economics 
                     Ecstasy 
                      
                       emotional 
                       religious
                       
                     Elegance 
                     Emotions 
                      
                       æsthetic
                       
                     Entertainment 
                     Eroticism 
                     Ethics 
                     Étiquette 
                     Family values 
                     Food and drink prohibitions 
                      
                       unclean animals
                       
                     Golden Rule 
                     Guilt / Culpability 
                     Happiness 
                     Harmony 
                     Honour 
                     Human rights 
                     Judgement 
                     Justice 
                     Law 
                      
                       jurisprudence 
                       religious
                       
                     Liberty 
                      
                       political freedom
                       
                     Love 
                     Magnificence 
                     Maxims 
                     Meaning of life 
                     Morality 
                      
                       public
                       
                     Obligations 
                     Peace 
                     Piety 
                     Praxeology 
                     Principles 
                     Punishment 
                     Qualities 
                     Repentance 
                     Reverence 
                     Rights 
                     Sexuality 
                      
                       ethics
                       
                     Sin 
                     Social stigma 
                     Stewardship 
                     Styles 
                     Sublime, The 
                     Suffering 
                     Sympathy 
                     Taboo 
                     Taste 
                     Theodicy 
                     Trust 
                     Unspoken rules 
                     Virtues and Vices 
                     Works of art 
                     Wrongdoing
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Examples
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Attitudes
                  
                    
                    
                     Optimism 
                     Pessimism 
                     Reclusion 
                     Weltschmerz
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Economic andpolitical ideologies
                  
                    
                    
                     Anarchism 
                     Authoritarianism 
                     Capitalism 
                     Christian democracy 
                     Collectivism 
                     Colonialism 
                     Communalism 
                     Communism 
                     Communitarianism 
                     Conservatism 
                     Constitutionalism 
                     Distributism 
                     Environmentalism 
                     Extremism 
                     Fanaticism 
                     Fascism 
                     Feminism 
                     Fundamentalism 
                     Globalism 
                     Green politics 
                     Imperialism 
                     Individualism 
                     Industrialisation 
                     Intellectualism 
                     Islamism 
                     Liberalism 
                     Libertarianism 
                     Masculism 
                     Militarism 
                     Monarchism 
                     Nationalism 
                     Pacifism 
                     Progressivism 
                     Radicalism 
                     Reformism 
                     Republicanism 
                     Sentientism 
                     Social democracy 
                     Socialism 
                     Utilitarianism 
                     Veganism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Religions
                  
                    
                    
                     Baháʼí 
                     Buddhism 
                     Caodaism 
                     Cheondoism 
                     Chinese folk religion 
                     Christianity 
                      
                       Eastern Orthodox Church
                       
                     Ethnic religions 
                     Hinduism 
                     Hòa Hảo 
                     Islam 
                     Jainism 
                     Judaism 
                     Korean shamanism 
                     Modern Paganism 
                     Rastafari 
                     Secularity / Irreligion / Agnosticism / Atheism 
                     Shinto 
                     Sikhism 
                     Spiritism 
                     Taoism 
                     Tenrikyo 
                     Traditional African religions 
                     Unitarian Universalism 
                     Zoroastrianism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Schools ofphilosophy
                  
                    
                    
                     Agriculturalism 
                     Aristotelianism 
                     Atomism 
                     Averroism 
                     Cartesianism 
                     Cārvāka 
                     Collectivism 
                     Confucianism / New Confucianism 
                     Critical theory 
                     Cynicism 
                     Cyrenaics 
                     Determinism 
                     Dualism 
                     Eleatics 
                     Empiricism 
                     Epicureanism 
                     Eretrian school 
                     Existentialism 
                     Foundationalism 
                     Hedonism 
                     Hegelianism 
                     Hermeneutics 
                     Historicism / New historicism 
                     Holism 
                     Humanism / Renaissance humanism 
                     Idealism 
                     Illuminationism 
                     ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                     Individualism 
                     Ionian 
                     Kantianism / Neo-Kantianism 
                     Kokugaku 
                     Legalism 
                     Logicians 
                     Materialism 
                     Megarian school 
                     Modernism / Postmodernism 
                     Mohism 
                     Monism 
                     Natural law 
                     Naturalism (Chinese) 
                     Naturalism (Western) 
                     Nihilism 
                     Peripatetic 
                     Phenomenology 
                     Platonism / Neoplatonism 
                     Pluralism 
                     Positivism 
                     Pragmatism 
                     Pre-Socratic 
                     Pyrrhonism 
                     Pythagoreanism / Neopythagoreanism 
                     Rationalism 
                     Reductionism 
                     Scholasticism / Neo-scholasticism 
                     Sentientism 
                     Social constructionism 
                     Sophism 
                     Spinozism 
                     Stoicism 
                     Structuralism / Post-structuralism 
                     Thomism 
                     Transcendentalism 
                     Utilitarianism 
                     Yangism
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Philosophy&amp;oldid=1068888052"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Philosophy
       Main topic articles
       Humanities
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles containing Sanskrit-language text
       Articles containing Pali-language text
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of October 2021
       CS1 errors: external links
       Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from April 2016
       Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
       Articles containing Greek-language text
       Articles containing Latin-language text
       CS1 maint: postscript
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Articles with Curlie links
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Articles containing video clips
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Philosophy&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikinews
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Acèh
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       Ænglisc
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Արեւմտահայերէն
       Armãneashti
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       अवधी
       Avañe'ẽ
       Aymar aru
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       Basa Bali
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Bislama
       Български
       Boarisch
       བོད་ཡིག
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Corsu
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       الدارجة
       Davvisámegiella
       Deutsch
       डोटेली
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Emiliàn e rumagnòl
       Эрзянь
       Español
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Frysk
       Furlan
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Gàidhlig
       Galego
       ГӀалгӀай
       贛語
       𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       한국어
       Hausa
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Igbo
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Interlingue
       ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitut
       IsiXhosa
       IsiZulu
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       Kabɩyɛ
       Kalaallisut
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Kaszëbsczi
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Ikinyarwanda
       Kiswahili
       Kotava
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Ladin
       Ladino
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Лезги
       Lietuvių
       Ligure
       Limburgs
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Livvinkarjala
       La .lojban.
       Luganda
       Lombard
       Magyar
       मैथिली
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       Malti
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       مازِرونی
       Bahasa Melayu
       ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nāhuatl
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       ߒߞߏ
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Nouormand
       Novial
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       Oromoo
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Pälzisch
       Pangasinan
       پنجابی
       Papiamentu
       پښتو
       Patois
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Picard
       Piemontèis
       Tok Pisin
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Ποντιακά
       Português
       Qaraqalpaqsha
       Română
       Rumantsch
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       संस्कृतम्
       Sängö
       سرائیکی
       Sardu
       Scots
       Seeltersk
       Sesotho
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Sranantongo
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taclḥit
       Taqbaylit
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       Tetun
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       ᏣᎳᎩ
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Тыва дыл
       Українська
       اردو
       ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
       Vahcuengh
       Vèneto
       Vepsän kel’
       Tiếng Việt
       Volapük
       Võro
       Walon
       文言
       Winaray
       Wolof
       吴语
       Xitsonga
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Zeêuws
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 January 2022, at 17:08&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
