
 
  
   
  Organization - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Organization 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Social entity established to meet needs or pursue goals
       
        
      
      
       For other uses, see Organization (disambiguation), Organizing, and Org (disambiguation).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Business administration
        
        
          Management of a business
        
        
          
          
           
            Accounting
           
            
            
             Management accounting 
             Financial accounting 
             Financial audit
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Business entities
           
            
            
             Corporate group 
             Conglomerate (company) 
             Holding company 
             Cooperative 
             Corporation 
             Joint-stock company 
             Limited liability company 
             Partnership 
             Privately held company 
             Sole proprietorship 
             State-owned enterprise
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Corporate governance
           
            
            
             Annual general meeting 
             Board of directors 
             Supervisory board 
             Advisory board 
             Audit committee
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Corporate law
           
            
            
             Commercial law 
             Constitutional documents 
             Contract 
             Corporate crime 
             Corporate liability 
             Insolvency law 
             International trade law 
             Mergers and acquisitions
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Corporate title
           
            
            
             Chairman 
             Chief business officer/Chief brand officer 
             Chief executive officer/Chief operating officer 
             Chief financial officer 
             Chief human resources officer 
             Chief information officer/Chief marketing officer 
             Chief product officer/Chief technology officer
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Economics
           
            
            
             Commodity 
             Public economics 
             Labour economics 
             Development economics 
             International economics 
             Mixed economy 
             Planned economy 
             Econometrics 
             Environmental economics 
             Open economy 
             Market economy 
             Knowledge economy 
             Microeconomics 
             Macroeconomics 
             Economic development 
             Economic statistics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Finance
           
            
            
             Financial statement 
             Insurance 
             Factoring 
             Cash conversion cycle 
             Insider dealing 
             Capital budgeting 
             Commercial bank 
             Derivative 
             Financial statement analysis 
             Financial risk 
             Public finance 
             Corporate finance 
             Managerial finance 
             International finance 
             Liquidation 
             Stock market 
             Financial market 
             Tax 
             Financial institution 
             Working capital 
             Venture capital
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Types of management
           
            
            
             Asset 
             Brand 
             Business intelligence 
             Business development 
             Capacity 
             Change 
              
               innovation
               
             Commercial 
              
               Marketing
               
             Communications 
             Configuration 
             Conflict 
             Content 
             Customer relationship 
             Distributed 
             Earned value 
             Electronic business 
             Enterprise resource planning&nbsp; 
              
               management information system
               
             Financial 
             Human resource&nbsp; 
              
               development
               
             Incident 
             Knowledge 
             Materials 
             Network 
              
               administrator
               
             Office 
             Operations&nbsp; 
              
               services
               
             Performance 
             Power 
             Problem 
             Process 
             Product life-cycle 
             Product 
             Project 
             Quality 
             Records 
             Resource 
             Risk&nbsp; 
              
               crisis
               
             Sales 
             Security 
             Service 
             Strategic 
             Supply chain 
             Systems 
              
               administrator
               
             Talent 
             Technology
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Organization
           
            
            
             Architecture 
             Behavior 
             Communication 
             Culture 
             Conflict 
             Development 
             Engineering 
             Hierarchy 
             Patterns 
             Space 
             Structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            List
           
            
            
             Business analysis 
             Business ethics 
             Business plan 
             Business judgment rule 
             Consumer behaviour 
             Business operations 
             International business 
             Business model 
             International trade 
             Business process 
             Business statistics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and economics portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Structure of the United Nations
        
       
       
      An organization, or organisation (Commonwealth English; see spelling differences), is an entity—such as a company, an institution, or an association—comprising one or more people and having a particular purpose. 
      The word is derived from the Greek word organon, which means tool or instrument, musical instrument, and organ.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Types 
        2 Structures 
          
          2.1 Committees or juries 
          2.2 Ecologies 
          2.3 Matrix organization 
          2.4 Pyramids or hierarchical 
           
        3 Theories 
        4 Leadership 
          
          4.1 Formal organizations 
          4.2 Informal organizations 
          4.3 The interplay between formal and informal organizations 
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Types 
      There are a variety of legal types of organizations, including corporations, governments, non-governmental organizations, political organizations, international organizations, armed forces, charities, not-for-profit corporations, partnerships, cooperatives, and  educational institutions etc. 
      A hybrid organization is a body that operates in both the public sector and the private sector simultaneously, fulfilling public duties and developing commercial market activities. 
      A voluntary association is an organization consisting of volunteers. Such organizations may be able to operate without legal formalities, depending on jurisdiction, including informal clubs or coordinating bodies with a goal in mind which they may express in the form of an manifesto, mission statement, or in an informal manner reflected in what they do because remember every action done by an organization both legal and illegal reflects a goal in mind. 
      Organizations may also operate secretly or illegally in the case of secret societies, criminal organizations and resistance movements. And in some cases may have obstacles from other organizations (ex: MLK's organization) but what makes an organization an organization is not the paperwork that makes it official but to be an organization there must be four things:  
      
       A goal in mind 
       A leader or committee making the decision 
       action involved 
       communication and members.
       
      But what makes an organization recognized by the government is either filling out Incorporation (business) or recognition in the form of either societal pressure (ex: Advocacy group), causing concerns (ex: Resistance movement) or being considered the spokesperson of a group of people subject to negotiation (ex: the Polisario Front being recognized as the sole representative of the Sahawri people and forming a partially recognized state.) 
      Compare the concept of social groups, which may include non-organizations. 
      Organizations and institutions can be synonymous, but Jack Knight writes that organizations are a narrow version of institutions or represent a cluster of institutions; the two are distinct in the sense that organizations contain internal institutions (that govern interactions between the members of the organizations).  
      Structures 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Diagram of the Federal Government and American Union, 1864.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Organizational structure
       
      The study of organizations includes a focus on optimising organizational structure. According to management science, most human organizations fall roughly into four types:  
      
       Committees or juries 
       Ecologies 
       Matrix organizations 
       Pyramids or hierarchies
       
      Committees or juries 
      These consist of a group of peers who decide as a group, perhaps by voting. The difference between a jury and a committee is that the members of the committee are usually assigned to perform or lead further actions after the group comes to a decision, whereas members of a jury come to a decision. In common law countries, legal juries render decisions of guilt, liability, and quantify damages; juries are also used in athletic contests, book awards, and similar activities. Sometimes a selection committee functions like a jury. In the Middle Ages, juries in continental Europe were used to determine the law according to consensus among local notables. 
      Committees are often the most reliable way to make decisions. Condorcet's jury theorem proved that if the average member votes better than a roll of dice, then adding more members increases the number of majorities that can come to a correct vote (however correctness is defined). The problem is that if the average member is subsequently worse than a roll of dice, the committee's decisions grow worse, not better; therefore, staffing is crucial. 
      Parliamentary procedure, such as Robert's Rules of Order, helps prevent committees from engaging in lengthy discussions without reaching decisions.  
      Ecologies 
      This organizational structure promotes internal competition. Inefficient components of the organization starve, while effective ones get more work. Everybody is paid for what they actually do, and so runs a tiny business that has to show a profit, or they are fired. 
      Companies who utilize this organization type reflect a rather one-sided view of what goes on in ecology. It is also the case that a natural ecosystem has a natural border - ecoregions do not, in general, compete with one another in any way, but are very autonomous. 
      The pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline talks about functioning as this type of organization in this external article from The Guardian. By:Bastian Batac De Leon.  
      Matrix organization 
      
      
       See also: Matrix management
       
      This organizational type assigns each worker two bosses in two different hierarchies. One hierarchy is "functional" and assures that each type of expert in the organization is well-trained, and measured by a boss who is super-expert in the same field. The other direction is "executive" and tries to get projects completed using the experts. Projects might be organized by products, regions, customer types, or some other schemes. 
      As an example, a company might have an individual with overall responsibility for products X and Y, and another individual with overall responsibility for engineering, quality control, etc. Therefore, subordinates responsible for quality control of project X will have two reporting lines. The United States aerospace industries were first to officially use this organizational structure after it emerged in the early 1960s.   
      Pyramids or hierarchical 
      A hierarchy exemplifies an arrangement with a leader who leads other individual members of the organization. This arrangement is often associated with the basis that there are enough to imagine a real pyramid, if there are not enough stone blocks to hold up the higher ones, gravity would irrevocably bring down the monumental structure. So one can imagine that if the leader does not have the support of his subordinates, the entire structure will collapse. Hierarchies were satirized in The Peter Principle (1969), a book that introduced hierarchiology and the saying that "in a hierarchy every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence."  
      Theories 
      
      
       See also: Organizational theory
       
      In the social sciences, organizations are the object of analysis for a number of disciplines, such as sociology, economics, political science, psychology, management, and organizational communication. The broader analysis of organizations is commonly referred to as organizational structure, organizational studies, organizational behaviour, or organization analysis. A number of different perspectives exist, some of which are compatible:  
      
       From a functional perspective, the focus is on how entities like businesses or state authorities are used. 
       From an institutional perspective, an organization is viewed as a purposeful structure within a social context. 
       From a process-related perspective, an organization is viewed as an entity is being (re-)organized, and the focus is on the organization as a set of tasks or actions.
       
      Sociology can be defined as the science of the institutions of modernity; specific institutions serve a function, akin to the individual organs of a coherent body. In the social and political sciences in general, an "organization" may be more loosely understood as the planned, coordinated, and purposeful action of human beings working through collective action to reach a common goal or construct a tangible product. This action is usually framed by formal membership and form (institutional rules). Sociology distinguishes the term organization into planned formal and unplanned informal (i.e. spontaneously formed) organizations. Sociology analyses organizations in the first line from an institutional perspective. In this sense, the organization is an enduring arrangement of elements. These elements and their actions are determined by rules so that a certain task can be fulfilled through a system of coordinated division of labor. 
      Economic approaches to organizations also take the division of labor as a starting point. The division of labor allows for (economies of) specialization. Increasing specialization necessitates coordination. From an economic point of view, markets and organizations are alternative coordination mechanisms for the execution of transactions. 
      An organization is defined by the elements that are part of it (who belongs to the organization and who does not?), its communication (which elements communicate and how do they communicate?), its autonomy (which changes are executed autonomously by the organization or its elements?), and its rules of action compared to outside events (what causes an organization to act as a collective actor?). 
      By coordinated and planned cooperation of the elements, the organization is able to solve tasks that lie beyond the abilities of the single element. The price paid by the elements is the limitation of the degrees of freedom of the elements. Advantages of organizations are enhancement (more of the same), addition (combination of different features), and extension. Disadvantages can be inertness (through co-ordination) and loss of interaction. 
      Among the theories that are or have been influential are:  
      
       Activity theory is the major theoretical influence, acknowledged by de Clodomir Santos de Morais in the development of Organization Workshop method. 
       Actor–network theory, an approach to social theory and research, originating in the field of science studies, which treats objects as part of social networks. 
       Complexity theory and organizations, the use of complexity theory in the field of strategic management and organizational studies. 
       Contingency theory, a class of behavioural theory that claims that there is no best way to organize a corporation, to lead a company, or to make decisions. 
       Critical management studies, a loose but extensive grouping of theoretically informed critiques of management, business, and organization, grounded originally in a critical theory perspective 
       Economic sociology, studies both the social effects and the social causes of various economic phenomena. 
       Enterprise architecture, the conceptual model that defines the coalescence of organizational structure and organizational behaviour. 
       Garbage Can Model, describes a model which disconnects problems, solutions, and decision makers from each other. 
       Principal–agent problem, concerns the difficulties in motivating one party (the "agent"), to act in the best interests of another (the "principal") rather than in his or her own interests 
       Scientific management (mainly following Frederick W. Taylor), a theory of management that analyses and synthesizes workflows. 
       Social entrepreneurship, the process of pursuing innovative solutions to social problems. 
       Transaction cost theory, the idea that people begin to organize their production in firms when the transaction cost of coordinating production through the market exchange, given imperfect information, is greater than within the firm. 
       Weber's Ideal of Bureaucracy (refer to Max Weber's chapter on "Bureaucracy" in his book Economy and Society)
       
      Leadership 
      
      
       Main article: Leadership
       
      A leader in a formal, hierarchical organization, is appointed to a managerial position and has the right to command and enforce obedience by virtue of the authority of his position. However, he must possess adequate personal attributes to match his authority, because authority is only potentially available to him. In the absence of sufficient personal competence, a manager may be confronted by an emergent leader who can challenge his role in the organization and reduce it to that of a figurehead. However, only the authority of position has the backing of formal sanctions. It follows that whoever wields personal influence and power can legitimize this only by gaining a formal position in the hierarchy, with commensurate authority.  
      Formal organizations 
      An organization that is established as a means for achieving defined objectives has been referred to as a formal organization. Its design specifies how goals are subdivided and reflected in subdivisions of the organization. Divisions, departments, sections, positions, jobs, and tasks make up this work structure. Thus, the formal organization is expected to behave impersonally in regard to relationships with clients or with its members. According to Weber's definition, entry and subsequent advancement is by merit or seniority. Each employee receives a salary and enjoys a degree of tenure that safeguards him from the arbitrary influence of superiors or of powerful clients. The higher his position in the hierarchy, the greater his presumed expertise in adjudicating problems that may arise in the course of the work carried out at lower levels of the organization. It is this bureaucratic structure that forms the basis for the appointment of heads or chiefs of administrative subdivisions in the organization and endows them with the authority attached to their position.  
      Informal organizations 
      In contrast to the appointed head or chief of an administrative unit, a leader emerges within the context of the informal organization that underlies the formal structure. The informal organization expresses the personal objectives and goals of the individual membership. Their objectives and goals may or may not coincide with those of the formal organization. The informal organization represents an extension of the social structures that generally characterize human life&nbsp;– the spontaneous emergence of groups and organizations as ends in themselves. 
      In prehistoric times, the man was preoccupied with his personal security, maintenance, protection, and survival. Now man spends a major portion of his waking hours working for organizations. His need to identify with a community that provides security, protection, maintenance and a feeling of belonging continues unchanged from prehistoric times. This need is met by the informal organization and its emergent, or unofficial, leaders. 
      Leaders emerge from within the structure of the informal organization. Their personal qualities, the demands of the situation, or a combination of these and other factors attract followers who accept their leadership within one or several overlay structures. Instead of the authority of position held by an appointed head or chief, the emergent leader wields influence or power. Influence is the ability of a person to gain cooperation from others by means of persuasion or control over rewards. Power is a stronger form of influence because it reflects a person's ability to enforce action through the control of a means of punishment.  
      The interplay between formal and informal organizations 
      As most organizations operate through a mix of formal and informal mechanisms, organization science scholars have paid attention to the type of interplay between formal and informal organizations.On the one hand, some have argued that formal and informal organizations operate as substitutes as one type of organization would decrease the advantages of using the other one. For instance, if parties trust each other the use of a formal contract is unnecessary or even detrimental to the relationship. On the other hand, other scholars have suggested that formal and informal organizations can complement each other. For instance, formal mechanisms of control can pave the way for the development of relational norms.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Business portal 
        Companies portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Affinity group 
        Business organization 
        Coalition 
        Collective 
        Decentralized autonomous organization 
        History of organizations 
        List of designated terrorist organizations 
        List of environmental organizations 
        List of general fraternities 
        List of international professional associations 
        List of trade unions 
        Maturity Model 
        Multidimensional organization 
        Mutual organization 
        Organizational psychology 
        Organization Workshop 
        Pacifist organization 
        Requisite organization 
        Service club 
        Size of groups, organizations, and communities 
        Umbrella organization 
        Voluntary association
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Example of an voluntary association".  
         ^ 
           "Example of a mission statement".  
         ^ 
           "challenges that organizations face".  
         ^  Compare: 
           Grande, Odd Torgier (1970). Organizations in society: a model framework and its application to organizations in agriculture. Cornell University. p.&nbsp;164. Retrieved 8 December 2018. It is also necessary  to identify social systems that are not organizations. Many of these are enormously important, but they lack an organization's purposive activity. Among the more conspicuous 'non-organizations' are races and ethnic groups (they have no programs), social classes (their collective identities are not unequivocal and their rosters not exact), cliques and play groups (they lack a collective identity), interest groups such as 'liberals' or 'old-fashioned conservatives' (they have no rosters).  
         ^ 
           Knight, Jack (1992). Institutions and social conflict. Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;1–3. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-511-52817-0. OCLC&nbsp;1127523562.  
         ^ 
           Schnetler, Rohann; Steyn, Herman; Van Staden, Paul J. (23 February 2015). "Characteristics of Matrix Structures, and Their Effects on Project Success". The South African Journal of Industrial Engineering. 26 (1): 11. doi:10.7166/26-1-1096. ISSN&nbsp;2224-7890.  
         ^ a b 
           Douma, Sytse; Schreuder, Hein (2013) . Economic Approaches to Organizations (5th&nbsp;ed.). Harlow: Pearson Education Limited. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-273-73529-8.  
         ^ a b c 
           Knowles, Henry P.; Saxberg, Borje O. (1971). Personality and Leadership Behavior. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co. pp.&nbsp;884–89. OCLC&nbsp;118832.  
         ^ a b 
           Gibb, Cecil A. (1970). Leadership: Selected Readings. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books. ISBN&nbsp;0140805176. OCLC&nbsp;174777513.  
         ^ 
           Lui, Steven S.; Ngo, Hang-Yue (2004). "The Role of Trust and Contractual Safeguards on Cooperation in Non-equity Alliances". Journal of Management. 30 (4): 471–485. doi:10.1016/j.jm.2004.02.002. ISSN&nbsp;0149-2063. S2CID&nbsp;144788583.  
         ^ 
           Poppo, Laura; Zenger, Todd (2002). "Do formal contracts and relational governance function as substitutes or complements?". Strategic Management Journal. 23 (8): 707–725. doi:10.1002/smj.249. ISSN&nbsp;1097-0266.  
        
       
       
      
       
        General
       
       
      
       Coase, Ronald (1937). "The Nature of the Firm" Economica, 4(16), pp.&nbsp;386–405. 
       
        Handy, Charles (1990). Inside Organizations: 21 Ideas for Managers. London: BBC Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-563-20830-3. 
       
        Handy, Charles (2005). Understanding Organizations (4th&nbsp;ed.). London: Penguin Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-14-015603-4. 
       Hewlett, Roderic. (2006). The Cognitive leader. Rowman &amp; Littlefield Pub Inc. 
       
        Johnson, Richard Arvid (1976). Management, systems, and society&nbsp;: an introduction. Pacific Palisades, Calif.: Goodyear Pub. Co. ISBN&nbsp;0-87620-540-6. OCLC&nbsp;2299496. 
       
        Katz, Daniel; Kahn, Robert Louis (1966). The social psychology of organizations. New York: Wiley. OCLC&nbsp;255184. 
       
        March, James G.; Simon, Herbert A. (1958). Organizations. New York: Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;0-471-56793-0. OCLC&nbsp;1329335. 
       Marshak, Thomas (1987). "organization theory," The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 3, pp.&nbsp;757–60. 
       Mintzberg, Henry (1981). "Organization Design: Fashion or Fit" Harvard Business Review (January February) 
       Morgenstern, Julie (1998). Organizing from the Inside Out. Owl Books 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-8050-5649-1 
       Peter, Laurence J. and Raymond Hull. The Peter Principle Pan Books 1970 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-330-02519-8 
       
        Rogers, Carl R.; Roethlisberger, Fritz Jules (1990). Barriers and gateways to communication. Boston, Mass.: Harvard Business Review. OCLC&nbsp;154085959. 
       Samson, D., Daft, R. (2005). Management: second Pacific Rim edition. Melbourne, Victoria: Thomson 
       
        Satir, Virginia (1967). Conjoint family therapy; a guide to theory and technique. Palo Alto, Calif: Science and Behavior Books. OCLC&nbsp;187068. 
       
        Scott, William Richard (2008). Institutions and Organizations (3rd&nbsp;ed.). London: Sage Publications Ltd. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4129-5090-9.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up organization in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Organization
         
       
       
      
       Research on Organizations: Bibliography Database and Maps 
       TheTransitioner.org: a site dedicated to collective intelligence and structure of organizations
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Aspects of organizations
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Architecture 
             Behavior 
             Blame 
             Burnout 
             Capital 
             Cells 
             Chart 
             Citizenship behavior 
             Climate 
             Commitment 
             Communication 
             Complexity 
             Conflict 
             Culture 
             Design 
             Development 
             Diagnostics 
             Dissent 
             Ecology 
             Effectiveness 
             Engineering 
             Ethics 
             Field 
             Fit in or fuck off 
             Hierarchy 
             Identification 
             Intelligence 
             Justice 
             Kick the cat 
             Kiss up kick down 
             Learning 
             Life cycle 
             Machiavellianism 
             Mentorship 
             Narcissism 
             Network analysis 
             Ombudsman 
             Onboarding 
             Patterns 
             Perceived support 
             Performance 
             Politics 
             Proactivity 
             Psychology 
             Psychopathy 
             Resilience 
             Retaliatory behavior 
             Safety 
             Space 
             Storytelling 
             Structure 
             Suggestion box
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
               See also templates
              
             
              Aspects of corporations
              
             
              Aspects of jobs
              
             
              Aspects of occupations
              
             
              Aspects of workplaces
             
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Aspects of workplaces
           
         
         
          Topics
          
            
            
             Absenteeism 
             Abusive supervision 
             Aggression 
             Anti-pattern 
             Bullying 
             Computer surveillance 
             Conflict 
             Control freak 
             Counterproductive behaviour 
             Coworking 
             Culture of fear 
             Democracy 
             Deviance 
             Discrimination 
             Diversity 
             Divide and rule 
             Drug tests 
             Emotions 
             Employee assistance 
             Employee engagement 
             Employee experience 
             Employee monitoring 
             Employee morale 
             Employee recognition 
             Employee silence 
             Employee surveys 
             Empowerment 
             Evaluation 
             Feminisation 
             Fit in or fuck off 
             Generations 
             Gossip 
             Happiness 
             Harassment 
             Health surveillance 
             Hostile work environment 
             Humor 
             Incivility 
             Inequality 
             Intervention 
             Jargon 
             Kick the cat 
             Kiss up kick down 
             Listening 
             Machiavellianism 
             Menopause 
             Micromanagement 
             Mobbing 
             Narcissism 
             Office politics 
             Performance appraisal 
             Personality clash 
             Phobia 
             Positive psychology 
             Privacy 
             Probation 
             Profanity 
             Psychopathy 
             Queen bee syndrome 
             Rat race 
             Relationships 
             Revenge 
             Robotics safety 
             Role conflict 
             Sabotage 
             Spirituality 
             Strategy 
             Stress 
             Toxic workplace 
             Toxic leader 
             Training 
             Turnover 
             Undermining 
             Violence 
             Virtual 
             Wellness 
             Work–family conflict 
             Workload 
             Workwear
             
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Corporation 
             Employment 
             Factory 
             Job 
             Office 
             Organization 
             Whistleblower
             
           
         
         
           Templates
          
            
            
             Aspects of corporations 
             Aspects of jobs 
             Aspects of occupations 
             Aspects of organizations 
             Employment
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
              
               2
              
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Organization&amp;oldid=1070508460"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Organizations
       Types of organization
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use American English from July 2020
       All Wikipedia articles written in American English
       Use dmy dates from July 2020
       Articles lacking in-text citations from October 2014
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2021
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       Basa Banyumasan
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Kiswahili
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       مازِرونی
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mirandés
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Setswana
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taqbaylit
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 February 2022, at 20:46&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
