
 
  
   
  Health care - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Health care 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Healthcare)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Prevention of disease and promotion of wellbeing
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Medical Care (journal).
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Global concentrations of health care resources, as depicted by the number of physicians per 10,000 individuals, by country. Data is sourced from a World Health Statistics 2010, a WHO report.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          
           
          
          
           Graphic of hospital beds per 1000 people globally in 2013, at top; New York–Presbyterian Hospital in New York City is one of the world's busiest hospitals, below. Pictured is the Weill-Cornell facility (white complex at the center)
          
         
        
       
       
      Health care is the maintenance or improvement of health via the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, amelioration, or cure of disease, illness, injury, and other physical and mental impairments in people. Health care is delivered by health professionals and allied health fields. Medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, midwifery, nursing, optometry, audiology, psychology, occupational therapy, physical therapy, athletic training, and other health professions are all part of health care. It includes work done in providing primary care, secondary care, and tertiary care, as well as in public health. 
      Access to health care may vary across countries, communities, and individuals, influenced by social and economic conditions as well as health policies. Providing health care services means "the timely use of personal health services to achieve the best possible health outcomes". Factors to consider in terms of health care access include financial limitations (such as insurance coverage), geographic barriers (such as additional transportation costs, the possibility to take paid time off of work to use such services), and personal limitations (lack of ability to communicate with health care providers, poor health literacy, low income). Limitations to health care services affects negatively the use of medical services, the efficacy of treatments, and overall outcome (well-being, mortality rates). 
      Health care systems are organizations established to meet the health needs of targeted populations. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a well-functioning health care system requires a financing mechanism, a well-trained and adequately paid workforce, reliable information on which to base decisions and policies, and well-maintained health facilities to deliver quality medicines and technologies. 
      An efficient health care system can contribute to a significant part of a country's economy, development, and industrialization. Health care is conventionally regarded as an important determinant in promoting the general physical and mental health and well-being of people around the world. An example of this was the worldwide eradication of smallpox in 1980, declared by the WHO as the first disease in human history to be eliminated by deliberate health care interventions.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Delivery 
          
          1.1 Primary care 
          1.2 Secondary care 
          1.3 Tertiary care 
          1.4 Quaternary care 
          1.5 Home and community care 
          1.6 Ratings 
           
        2 Related sectors 
          
          2.1 Health system 
          2.2 Healthcare industry 
          2.3 Health care research 
          2.4 Health care financing 
          2.5 Administration and regulation 
          2.6 Health information technology 
           
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Delivery 
      
      
       See also: Health professionals
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Primary care may be provided in community health centers.
        
       
       
      The delivery of modern health care depends on groups of trained professionals and paraprofessionals coming together as interdisciplinary teams. This includes professionals in medicine, psychology, physiotherapy, nursing, dentistry, midwifery and allied health, along with many others such as public health practitioners, community health workers and assistive personnel, who systematically provide personal and population-based preventive, curative and rehabilitative care services. 
      While the definitions of the various types of health care vary depending on the different cultural, political, organizational and disciplinary perspectives, there appears to be some consensus that primary care constitutes the first element of a continuing health care process and may also include the provision of secondary and tertiary levels of care. Health care can be defined as either public or private.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The emergency room is often a frontline venue for the delivery of primary medical care.
        
       
       
      Primary care 
      
      
       Main article: Primary care
       
      
      
       See also: Primary health care, Ambulatory care, and Urgent care
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Hospital train "Therapist Matvei Mudrov" in Khabarovsk, Russia
        
       
       
      Primary care refers to the work of health professionals who act as a first point of consultation for all patients within the health care system. Such a professional would usually be a primary care physician, such as a general practitioner or family physician. Another professional would be a licensed independent practitioner such as a physiotherapist, or a non-physician primary care provider such as a physician assistant or nurse practitioner. Depending on the locality, health system organization the patient may see another health care professional first, such as a pharmacist or nurse. Depending on the nature of the health condition, patients may be referred for secondary or tertiary care. 
      Primary care is often used as the term for the health care services that play a role in the local community. It can be provided in different settings, such as Urgent care centers that provide same-day appointments or services on a walk-in basis. 
      Primary care involves the widest scope of health care, including all ages of patients, patients of all socioeconomic and geographic origins, patients seeking to maintain optimal health, and patients with all types of acute and chronic physical, mental and social health issues, including multiple chronic diseases. Consequently, a primary care practitioner must possess a wide breadth of knowledge in many areas. Continuity is a key characteristic of primary care, as patients usually prefer to consult the same practitioner for routine check-ups and preventive care, health education, and every time they require an initial consultation about a new health problem. The International Classification of Primary Care (ICPC) is a standardized tool for understanding and analyzing information on interventions in primary care based on the reason for the patient's visit. 
      Common chronic illnesses usually treated in primary care may include, for example, hypertension, diabetes, asthma, COPD, depression and anxiety, back pain, arthritis or thyroid dysfunction. Primary care also includes many basic maternal and child health care services, such as family planning services and vaccinations. In the United States, the 2013 National Health Interview Survey found that skin disorders (42.7%), osteoarthritis and joint disorders (33.6%), back problems (23.9%), disorders of lipid metabolism (22.4%), and upper respiratory tract disease (22.1%, excluding asthma) were the most common reasons for accessing a physician. 
      In the United States, primary care physicians have begun to deliver primary care outside of the managed care (insurance-billing) system through direct primary care which is a subset of the more familiar concierge medicine. Physicians in this model bill patients directly for services, either on a pre-paid monthly, quarterly, or annual basis, or bill for each service in the office. Examples of direct primary care practices include Foundation Health in Colorado and Qliance in Washington. 
      In the context of global population aging, with increasing numbers of older adults at greater risk of chronic non-communicable diseases, rapidly increasing demand for primary care services is expected in both developed and developing countries. The World Health Organization attributes the provision of essential primary care as an integral component of an inclusive primary health care strategy.  
      Secondary care 
      Secondary care includes acute care: necessary treatment for a short period of time for a brief but serious illness, injury, or other health condition. This care is often found in a hospital emergency department. Secondary care also includes skilled attendance during childbirth, intensive care, and medical imaging services. 
      The term "secondary care" is sometimes used synonymously with "hospital care". However, many secondary care providers, such as psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, most dental specialties or physiotherapists, do not necessarily work in hospitals. Some primary care services are delivered within hospitals. Depending on the organization and policies of the national health system, patients may be required to see a primary care provider for a referral before they can access secondary care. 
      In countries that operate under a mixed market health care system, some physicians limit their practice to secondary care by requiring patients to see a primary care provider first. This restriction may be imposed under the terms of the payment agreements in private or group health insurance plans. In other cases, medical specialists may see patients without a referral, and patients may decide whether self-referral is preferred. 
      In other countries patient self-referral to a medical specialist for secondary care is rare as prior referral from another physician (either a primary care physician or another specialist) is considered necessary, regardless of whether the funding is from private insurance schemes or national health insurance. 
      Allied health professionals, such as physical therapists, respiratory therapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, and dietitians, also generally work in secondary care, accessed through either patient self-referral or through physician referral.  
      Tertiary care 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery in London, United Kingdom is a specialist neurological hospital.
        
       
       
      
      
       See also: Medicine
       
      Tertiary care is specialized consultative health care, usually for inpatients and on referral from a primary or secondary health professional, in a facility that has personnel and facilities for advanced medical investigation and treatment, such as a tertiary referral hospital. 
      Examples of tertiary care services are cancer management, neurosurgery, cardiac surgery, plastic surgery, treatment for severe burns, advanced neonatology services, palliative, and other complex medical and surgical interventions.  
      Quaternary care 
      The term quaternary care is sometimes used as an extension of tertiary care in reference to advanced levels of medicine which are highly specialized and not widely accessed. Experimental medicine and some types of uncommon diagnostic or surgical procedures are considered quaternary care. These services are usually only offered in a limited number of regional or national health care centers.  
      Home and community care 
      
      
       See also: Public health
       
      Many types of health care interventions are delivered outside of health facilities. They include many interventions of public health interest, such as food safety surveillance, distribution of condoms and needle-exchange programs for the prevention of transmissible diseases. 
      They also include the services of professionals in residential and community settings in support of self-care, home care, long-term care, assisted living, treatment for substance use disorders among other types of health and social care services. 
      Community rehabilitation services can assist with mobility and independence after the loss of limbs or loss of function. This can include prostheses, orthotics, or wheelchairs. 
      Many countries, especially in the west, are dealing with aging populations, so one of the priorities of the health care system is to help seniors live full, independent lives in the comfort of their own homes. There is an entire section of health care geared to providing seniors with help in day-to-day activities at home such as transportation to and from doctor's appointments along with many other activities that are essential for their health and well-being. Although they provide home care for older adults in cooperation, family members and care workers may harbor diverging attitudes and values towards their joint efforts. This state of affairs presents a challenge for the design of ICT (information and communication technology) for home care. 
      Because statistics show that over 80 million Americans have taken time off of their primary employment to care for a loved one, many countries have begun offering programs such as the Consumer Directed Personal Assistant Program to allow family members to take care of their loved ones without giving up their entire income. 
      With obesity in children rapidly becoming a major concern, health services often set up programs in schools aimed at educating children about nutritional eating habits, making physical education a requirement and teaching young adolescents to have a positive self-image.  
      Ratings 
      
      
       Main article: Health care ratings
       
      Health care ratings are ratings or evaluations of health care used to evaluate the process of care and health care structures and/or outcomes of health care services. This information is translated into report cards that are generated by quality organizations, nonprofit, consumer groups and media. This evaluation of quality is based on measures of:  
      
       hospital quality 
       health plan quality 
       physician quality 
       MERHS healthcare treatment 
       quality for other health professionals 
       of patient experience
       
      Related sectors 
      Health care extends beyond the delivery of services to patients, encompassing many related sectors, and is set within a bigger picture of financing and governance structures.  
      Health system 
      
      
       Main articles: Health system and Health care systems by country
       
      A health system, also sometimes referred to as health care system or healthcare system, is the organization of people, institutions, and resources that deliver health care services to populations in need.  
      Healthcare industry 
      
      
       See also: Healthcare industry and Health economics
       
      The healthcare industry incorporates several sectors that are dedicated to providing health care services and products. As a basic framework for defining the sector, the United Nations' International Standard Industrial Classification categorizes health care as generally consisting of hospital activities, medical and dental practice activities, and "other human health activities." The last class involves activities of, or under the supervision of, nurses, midwives, physiotherapists, scientific or diagnostic laboratories, pathology clinics, residential health facilities, patient advocates or other allied health professions. 
      In addition, according to industry and market classifications, such as the Global Industry Classification Standard and the Industry Classification Benchmark, health care includes many categories of medical equipment, instruments and services including biotechnology, diagnostic laboratories and substances, drug manufacturing and delivery. 
      For example, pharmaceuticals and other medical devices are the leading high technology exports of Europe and the United States. The United States dominates the biopharmaceutical field, accounting for three-quarters of the world's biotechnology revenues.  
      Health care research 
      
      
       Main articles: Medical research and Nursing research
       
      
      
       For a topical guide to this subject, see Healthcare science.
       
      The quantity and quality of many health care interventions are improved through the results of science, such as advanced through the medical model of health which focuses on the eradication of illness through diagnosis and effective treatment. Many important advances have been made through health research, biomedical research and pharmaceutical research, which form the basis for evidence-based medicine and evidence-based practice in health care delivery. Health care research frequently engages directly with patients, and as such issues for whom to engage and how to engage with them become important to consider when seeking to actively include them in studies. While single best practice does not exist, the results of a systematic review on patient engagement suggest that research methods for patient selection need to account for both patient availability and willingness to engage. 
      Health services research can lead to greater efficiency and equitable delivery of health care interventions, as advanced through the social model of health and disability, which emphasizes the societal changes that can be made to make populations healthier. Results from health services research often form the basis of evidence-based policy in health care systems. Health services research is also aided by initiatives in the field of artificial intelligence for the development of systems of health assessment that are clinically useful, timely, sensitive to change, culturally sensitive, low-burden, low-cost, built into standard procedures, and involve the patient.  
      Health care financing 
      
      
       See also: Healthcare system, Health policy, and Universal health care
       
      
       
         
          See or edit source data. 
        
        
         Total health spending as a fraction of GDP.
        
       
       
      There are generally five primary methods of funding health care systems:  
      
       General taxation to the state, county or municipality 
       Social health insurance 
       Voluntary or private health insurance 
       Out-of-pocket payments 
       Donations to health charities
       
      In most countries, there is a mix of all five models, but this varies across countries and over time within countries. Aside from financing mechanisms, an important question should always be how much to spend on health ccare. For the purposes of comparison, this is often expressed as the percentage of GDP spent on health care. In OECD countries for every extra $1000 spent on health care, life expectancy falls by 0.4 years. A similar correlation is seen from the analysis carried out each year by Bloomberg. Clearly this kind of analysis is flawed in that life expectancy is only one measure of a health system's performance, but equally, the notion that more funding is better is not supported. 
      In 2011, the health care industry consumed an average of 9.3 percent of the GDP or US$ 3,322 (PPP-adjusted) per capita across the 34 members of OECD countries. The US (17.7%, or US$ PPP 8,508), the Netherlands (11.9%, 5,099), France (11.6%, 4,118), Germany (11.3%, 4,495), Canada (11.2%, 5669), and Switzerland (11%, 5,634) were the top spenders, however life expectancy in total population at birth was highest in Switzerland (82.8 years), Japan and Italy (82.7), Spain and Iceland (82.4), France (82.2) and Australia (82.0), while OECD's average exceeds 80 years for the first time ever in 2011: 80.1 years, a gain of 10 years since 1970. The US (78.7 years) ranges only on place 26 among the 34 OECD member countries, but has the highest costs by far. All OECD countries have achieved universal (or almost universal) health coverage, except the US and Mexico. (see also international comparisons.) 
      In the United States, where around 18% of GDP is spent on health care, the Commonwealth Fund analysis of spend and quality shows a clear correlation between worse quality and higher spending.  
      Administration and regulation 
      
      
       See also: Health professional requisites
       
      The management and administration of health care is vital to the delivery of health care services. In particular, the practice of health professionals and the operation of health care institutions is typically regulated by national or state/provincial authorities through appropriate regulatory bodies for purposes of quality assurance. Most countries have credentialing staff in regulatory boards or health departments who document the certification or licensing of health workers and their work history.  
      Health information technology 
      
      
       Further information: Health information technology, Health information management, Health informatics, eHealth, and Health technology
       
      Health information technology (HIT) is "the application of information processing involving both computer hardware and software that deals with the storage, retrieval, sharing, and use of health care information, data, and knowledge for communication and decision making." 
      Health information technology components:  
      
       Electronic Health Record (EHR) - An EHR contains a patient's comprehensive medical history, and may include records from multiple providers. 
       Electronic Medical Record (EMR) - An EMR contains the standard medical and clinical data gathered in one's provider's office. 
       Personal Health Record (PHR) - A PHR is a patient's medical history that is maintained privately, for personal use. 
       Medical Practice Management software (MPM) - is designed to streamline the day-to-day tasks of operating a medical facility. Also known as practice management software or practice management system (PMS). 
       Health Information Exchange (HIE) - Health Information Exchange allows health care professionals and patients to appropriately access and securely share a patient's vital medical information electronically.
       
      See also 
      
       Category:Health care by country 
       Healthcare system / Health professionals 
       Health equity 
       Health policy 
       Tobacco control laws 
       Universal health care
       
      By country:  
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Healthcare by country
           
         
         
          
           
            Afghanistan
            Albania
            Algeria
            Andorra
            Angola
            Argentina
            Armenia
            Australia
            Austria
            Azerbaijan
            Bahamas
            Bahrain
            Bangladesh
            Belarus
            Belgium
            Belize
            Benin
            Bhutan
            Bolivia
            Bosnia and Herzegovina
            Botswana
            Brazil
            Brunei
            Bulgaria
            Burkina Faso
            Burundi
            Cambodia
            Cameroon
            Canada
            Cape Verde
            Central African Republic
            Chad
            Chile
            China
            Colombia
            Comoros
            Costa Rica
            Croatia
            Cuba
            Cyprus
            Czech Republic
            Democratic Republic of the Congo
            Denmark
            Djibouti
            Dominican Republic
            East Timor
            Egypt
            Equatorial Guinea
            Eritrea
            Estonia
            Eswatini
            Ethiopia
            Finland
            France
            Gabon
            Gambia
            Georgia
            Germany
            Ghana
            Greece
            Guinea
            Guinea-Bissau
            Guyana
            Haiti
            Hungary
            Iceland
            India
            Indonesia
            Iran
            Iraq
            Ireland
            Israel
            Italy
            Ivory Coast
            Japan
            Jordan
            Kazakhstan
            Kenya
            Kosovo
            Kuwait
            Kyrgyzstan
            Laos
            Latvia
            Lebanon
            Lesotho
            Liberia
            Libya
            Liechtenstein
            Lithuania
            Luxembourg
            Madagascar
            Malawi
            Malaysia
            Mali
            Malta
            Mauritania
            Mauritius
            Mexico
            Moldova
            Monaco
            Mongolia
            Montenegro
            Morocco
            Mozambique
            Myanmar
            Namibia
            Nepal
            Netherlands
            New Zealand
            Nicaragua
            Niger
            Nigeria
            North Korea
            North Macedonia
            Norway
            Oman
            Pakistan
            Palestine
            Panama
            Paraguay
            Peru
            Philippines
            Poland
            Portugal
            Qatar
            Republic of the Congo
            Romania
            Russia
            Rwanda
            Saint Lucia
            San Marino
            Saudi Arabia
            Senegal
            Serbia
            Seychelles
            Sierra Leone
            Singapore
            Slovakia
            Slovenia
            Solomon Islands
            Somalia
            South Africa
            South Korea
            South Sudan
            Spain
            Sri Lanka
            Sudan
            Sweden
            Switzerland
            Syria
            São Tomé and Príncipe
            Taiwan
            Tajikistan
            Tanzania
            Thailand
            Togo
            Tonga
            Trinidad and Tobago
            Tunisia
            Turkey
            Turkmenistan
            Uganda
            Ukraine
            United Arab Emirates
            United Kingdom
            United States
            Uruguay
            Uzbekistan
            Vanuatu
            Venezuela
            Vietnam
            Yemen
            Zambia
            Zimbabwe
           
         
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Hospital beds per 1,000 people". Our World in Data. Archived from the original on 12 April 2020. Retrieved 7 March 2020.  
         ^ 
           Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Monitoring Access to Personal Health Care Services; Millman, M. (1993). Access to Health Care in America. The National Academies Press, US National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine. doi:10.17226/2009. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-309-04742-5. PMID&nbsp;25144064.  
         ^ 
           "Healthcare Access in Rural Communities Introduction". Rural Health Information Hub. 2019. Retrieved 2019-06-14.  
         ^ 
           "Health Topics: Health Systems". www.who.int. World Health Organization. Archived from the original on 2019-07-18. Retrieved 2013-11-24.  
         ^ World Health Organization. Anniversary of smallpox eradication. Geneva, 18 June 2010.  
         ^ United States Department of Labor. Employment and Training Administration: Health care Archived 2012-01-29 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved June 24, 2011.  
         ^ a b c Thomas-MacLean R et al. No Cookie-Cutter Response: Conceptualizing Primary Health Care. Archived 2019-04-12 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 26 August 2014.  
         ^ 
           "June 2014". Magazine. Archived from the original on 22 December 2020. Retrieved 9 March 2019.  
         ^ World Health Organization. Definition of Terms. Retrieved 26 August 2014.  
         ^ World Health Organization. International Classification of Primary Care, Second edition (ICPC-2). Archived 2020-12-22 at the Wayback Machine Geneva. Accessed 24 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           St Sauver JL, Warner DO, Yawn BP, et&nbsp;al. (January 2013). "Why patients visit their doctors: assessing the most prevalent conditions in a defined American population". Mayo Clin. Proc. 88 (1): 56–67. doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2012.08.020. PMC&nbsp;3564521. PMID&nbsp;23274019.  
         ^ World Health Organization. Aging and life course: Our aging world. Archived 2019-06-11 at the Wayback Machine Geneva. Accessed 24 June 2011.  
         ^ Simmons J. Primary Care Needs New Innovations to Meet Growing Demands. Archived 2011-07-11 at the Wayback Machine HealthLeaders Media, May 27, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Health Care System". the Free Medical Dictionary. Retrieved December 21, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Secondary Care". MS Trust. Retrieved December 22, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Difference between primary, secondary and tertiary health care". EInsure. Retrieved December 21, 2020.  
         ^ Johns Hopkins Medicine. Patient Care: Tertiary Care Definition. Archived 2017-07-11 at the Wayback Machine Accessed 27 June 2011.  
         ^ a b Emory University. School of Medicine. Archived 2011-04-23 at the Wayback Machine Accessed 27 June 2011.  
         ^ Alberta Physician Link. Levels of Care. Archived 2014-06-14 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 26 August 2014.  
         ^ 
           Christensen, L.R.; Grönvall, E. (2011). "Challenges and Opportunities for Collaborative Technologies for Home Care Work". In S. Bødker; N. O. Bouvin; W. Letters; V. Wulf; L. Ciolfi (eds.). ECSCW 2011: Proceedings of the 12th European Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, 24–28 September 2011, Aarhus Denmark. London: Springer. pp.&nbsp;61–80. doi:10.1007/978-0-85729-913-0_4. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-85729-912-3.  
         ^ 
           Porter, Eduardo (2017-08-29). "Home Health Care: Shouldn't It Be Work Worth Doing?". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Archived from the original on 2020-12-22. Retrieved 2017-11-29.  
         ^ 
           Dorothy Kamaker (2015-09-21). "Patient advocacy services ensure optimum health outcomes". Archived from the original on 2017-12-20. Retrieved 2015-09-26.  
         ^ a b 
           "The Pharmaceutical Industry in Figures" (pdf). European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. 2007. Archived from the original on December 22, 2020. Retrieved February 15, 2010.  
         ^ 
           2008 Annual Report. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Europe's competitiveness". European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. Archived from the original on 23 August 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Domecq, Juan Pablo; Prutsky, Gabriela; Elraiyah, Tarig; Wang, Zhen; Nabhan, Mohammed; Shippee, Nathan; Brito, Juan Pablo; Boehmer, Kasey; Hasan, Rim; Firwana, Belal; Erwin, Patricia (2014-02-26). "Patient engagement in research: a systematic review". BMC Health Services Research. 14 (1): 89. doi:10.1186/1472-6963-14-89. ISSN&nbsp;1472-6963. PMC&nbsp;3938901. PMID&nbsp;24568690.  
         ^ 
           Bond J.; Bond S. (1994). Sociology and Health Care. Churchill Livingstone. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-443-04059-7.  
         ^  
           Erik Cambria; Tim Benson; Chris Eckl; Amir Hussain (2012). "Sentic PROMs: Application of Sentic Computing to the Development of a Novel Unified Framework for Measuring Health-Care Quality". Expert Systems with Applications, Elsevier. doi:10.1016/j.eswa.2012.02.120.  
         ^ 
           Ortiz-Ospina, Esteban; Roser, Max (22 August 2016). "Global Health". Our World in Data. Archived from the original on 22 December 2020. Retrieved 4 October 2019.  
         ^ World Health Organization. "Regional Overview of Social Health Insurance in South-East Asia.' Archived 2012-09-03 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved December 02, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Improve operational efficiency in healthcare with RPA". NuAIg. 2021-03-02. Retrieved 2021-05-27.  
         ^ a b 
           "These Are the Economies With the Most (and Least) Efficient Health Care". BloombergQuint. Archived from the original on 2020-12-22. Retrieved 2019-01-14.  
         ^ 
           "Health at a Glance 2013 - OECD Indicators" (PDF). OECD. 2013-11-21. pp.&nbsp;5, 39, 46, 48. (link). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2019-04-12. Retrieved 2013-11-24.  
         ^ 
           "OECD.StatExtracts, Health, Health Status, Life expectancy, Total population at birth, 2011" (online statistics). stats.oecd.org/. OECD's iLibrary. 2013. Archived from the original on 2019-04-02. Retrieved 2013-11-24.  
         ^ 
           "Health Care Quality-Spending Interactive | Commonwealth Fund". www.commonwealthfund.org. Archived from the original on 2020-12-22. Retrieved 2019-01-14.  
         ^ World Health Organization, 2003. Quality and accreditation in health care services. Geneva http://www.who.int/hrh/documents/en/quality_accreditation.pdf Archived 2020-12-22 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Tulenko et al., "Framework and measurement issues for monitoring entry into the health workforce." Handbook on monitoring and evaluation of human resources for health. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Health information technology — HIT". HealthIT.gov. Archived from the original on 22 December 2020. Retrieved 5 August 2014.  
         ^ a b 
           "Definition and Benefits of Electronic Medical Records (EMR) | Providers &amp; Professionals | HealthIT.gov". www.healthit.gov. Retrieved 2017-11-27.  
         ^ 
           "What is a personal health record? | FAQs | Providers &amp; Professionals | HealthIT.gov". www.healthit.gov. Archived from the original on 2020-12-22. Retrieved 2017-11-27.  
         ^ 
           "Official Information about Health Information Exchange (HIE) | Providers &amp; Professionals | HealthIT.gov". www.healthit.gov. Archived from the original on 2020-12-22. Retrieved 2017-11-27.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Health care 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library 
           Resources in other libraries
           
        
       
       
      
        Media related to Health care at Wikimedia Commons 
        Travel health travel guide from Wikivoyage
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Health care
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Economics 
             Equipment 
             Guidelines 
             Industry 
             Philosophy 
             Policy 
             Providers 
             Ranking 
             Reform 
             System
             
           
         
         
          Professions
          
            
            
             Medicine 
             Nursing 
             Pharmacy 
             Healthcare science 
             Dentistry 
             Allied health professions 
             Health information management
             
           
         
         
          Settings
          
            
            
             Assisted living 
             Clinic 
             Hospital 
             Nursing home 
             Medical school (Academic health science centre, Teaching hospital) 
             Pharmacy school
             
           
         
         
          Care
          
            
            
             Acute 
             Chronic 
             End-of-life 
             Hospice 
             Overutilization 
             Palliative 
             Primary 
             Self 
             Total
             
           
         
         
          Skills / Training
          
            
            
             Bedside manner 
             Cultural competence 
             Diagnosis 
             Education 
             Universal precautions
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             United States 
              
               reform debate in the United States
               
             United Kingdom 
             Canada 
             Australia 
             New Zealand 
             (Category Health care by country)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Substantive human rights
           
         
         
          
           
            Please note: What is considered a human right is in some cases controversial; not all the topics listed are universally accepted as human rights
           
         
         
          Civil and political
          
            
            
             Cannabis rights 
             Equality before the law 
             Freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention 
             Freedom of assembly 
             Freedom of association 
             Freedom from cruel and unusual punishment 
             Freedom from discrimination 
             Freedom of information 
             Freedom of movement 
             Freedom of religion 
             Freedom from slavery 
             Freedom of speech 
             Freedom of thought 
             Freedom from torture 
             Legal aid 
             LGBT rights 
             Liberty 
             Nationality 
             Personhood 
             Presumption of innocence 
             Right of asylum 
             Right to die 
             Right to a fair trial 
             Right to family life 
             Right to keep and bear arms 
             Right to life 
             Right to petition 
             Right to privacy 
             Right to protest 
             Right to refuse medical treatment 
             Right of self-defense 
             Right to truth 
             Security of person 
             Suffrage
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Economic, socialand cultural
           
          
            
            
             Digital rights 
             Equal pay for equal work 
             Fair remuneration 
             Labor rights 
             Right to an adequate standard of living 
             Right to clothing 
             Right to development 
             Right to education 
             Right to food 
             Right to health 
             Right to a healthy environment 
             Right to housing 
             Right to Internet access 
             Right to property 
             Right to public participation 
             Right of reply 
             Right to rest and leisure 
             Right of return 
             Right to science and culture 
             Right to social security 
             Right to water 
             Right to work 
             Trade union membership
             
           
         
         
          Sexual andreproductive
          
            
            
             Abortion 
             Family planning 
             Freedom from involuntary female genital mutilation 
             Intersex human rights 
             LGBT rights 
             Sexual and reproductive health 
             Right to sexuality
             
           
         
         
          Violations
          
            
            
             Corporal punishment 
             Crimes against humanity 
             Genocide 
             War crimes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Nursing
           
         
         
          Levels of practice
          
           
           
            
             
              Generalists
              
                
                
                 Student nurse 
                 Clinical nurse leader 
                 Licensed practical nurse 
                 Registered nurse 
                 Graduate nurse 
                 Nurse scientist
                 
               
             
             
              Advanced practice
              
               
               
                
                 
                  APNs by role
                  
                    
                    
                     Clinical nurse specialist 
                     Nurse anesthetist 
                     Nurse midwife 
                     Nurse practitioner
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  NPs by population
                  
                    
                    
                     Family 
                     Adult-gerontology 
                     Pediatrics 
                     Women's health 
                     Neonatal 
                     Psych/mental health
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
          
           
            
            
           
         
         
          Education  and licensure
          
            
            
             Nightingale Pledge 
             Associate of Science in Nursing 
             Bachelor of Science in Nursing 
             Diploma in Nursing 
             Doctor of Nursing Practice 
             Master of Science in Nursing 
             Board of nursing 
             Nurse Licensure Compact 
             Nursing credentials and certifications 
             Nursing school 
             Nurse registry 
             NCLEX 
             TEAS
             
           
         
         
          Specialties and  areas of practice
          
            
            
             Ambulatory care 
             Cardiac 
             Correctional nursing 
             Critical care 
             Dental 
             Education 
             Emergency 
             Faith community 
             Flight 
             Forensic 
             Geriatrics 
             Holistic 
             Home health 
             Hyperbaric 
             Legal consultation 
             Management 
             Matron 
             Medical-surgical 
             Midwifery 
             Women's Health Care Nurse 
             Military 
             Neonatal 
             Nursing informatics 
             Obstetrics 
             Occupational health 
             Oncology 
             Orthopedics 
             Pediatrics 
             Perianesthesia 
             Perioperative 
             Psychiatric and mental health 
             Private duty 
             Public health 
             School 
             Space 
             Surgical 
             Telenursing 
             Travel health nursing 
             WOCN
             
           
         
         
          Nursing process
          
            
            
             Nursing assessment 
             Nursing diagnosis 
             Nursing care plan 
             Nursing theory
             
           
         
         
          Classification  systems
          
            
            
             NANDA 
             Nursing Interventions Classification 
             Nursing Minimum Data Set (NMDS) 
             Nursing Outcomes Classification
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             International Nurses Day 
             Australia (timeline) 
             Canada 
             Germany 
             Hong Kong 
             India 
             Iran 
             Japan 
             Kenya 
             New Zealand (timeline) 
             Pakistan 
             Philippines 
             Republic of Ireland 
             South Africa 
             Spain 
             Taiwan 
             United Kingdom (history) 
             United States (history)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Medicine
           
         
         
          Specialtiesandsubspecialties
          
           
           
            
             
              Surgery
              
                
                
                 Cardiac surgery 
                 Cardiothoracic surgery 
                 Eye surgery 
                 General surgery 
                  
                   Colorectal surgery 
                   Digestive system surgery
                   
                 Neurosurgery 
                 Oral and maxillofacial surgery 
                 Orthopedic surgery 
                 Hand surgery 
                 Otolaryngology 
                  
                   ENT
                   
                 Pediatric surgery 
                 Plastic surgery 
                 Reproductive surgery 
                 Surgical oncology 
                 Transplant surgery 
                 Trauma surgery 
                 Urology 
                  
                   Andrology
                   
                 Vascular surgery
                 
               
             
             
              Internal medicine
              
                
                
                 Allergy&nbsp;/ Immunology 
                 Angiology 
                 Cardiology 
                 Endocrinology 
                 Gastroenterology 
                  
                   Hepatology
                   
                 Geriatrics 
                 Hematology 
                 Hospital medicine 
                 Infectious disease 
                 Nephrology 
                 Oncology 
                 Pulmonology 
                 Rheumatology
                 
               
             
             
              Obstetrics and gynaecology
              
                
                
                 Gynaecology 
                 Gynecologic oncology 
                 Maternal–fetal medicine 
                 Obstetrics 
                 Reproductive endocrinology and infertility 
                 Urogynecology
                 
               
             
             
              Diagnostic
              
                
                
                 Radiology 
                  
                   Interventional radiology 
                   Nuclear medicine
                   
                 Pathology 
                  
                   Anatomical 
                   Clinical pathology 
                   Clinical chemistry 
                   Cytopathology 
                   Medical microbiology 
                   Transfusion medicine
                  
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 Addiction medicine 
                 Adolescent medicine 
                 Anesthesiology 
                 Dermatology 
                 Disaster medicine 
                 Diving medicine 
                 Emergency medicine 
                  
                   Mass gathering medicine
                   
                 Family medicine / General practice 
                 Hospital medicine 
                 Intensive care medicine 
                 Medical genetics 
                 Narcology 
                 Neurology 
                  
                   Clinical neurophysiology
                   
                 Occupational medicine 
                 Ophthalmology 
                 Oral medicine 
                 Pain management 
                 Palliative care 
                 Pediatrics 
                  
                   Neonatology
                   
                 Phlebology 
                 Physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&amp;R) 
                 Preventive medicine 
                 Prison healthcare 
                 Psychiatry 
                  
                   Addiction psychiatry
                   
                 Radiation oncology 
                 Reproductive medicine 
                 Sexual medicine 
                  
                   Venereology
                   
                 Sleep medicine 
                 Sports medicine 
                 Transplantation medicine 
                 Tropical medicine 
                  
                   Travel medicine
                  
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Medical education
          
            
            
             Medical school 
             Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery 
             Bachelor of Medical Sciences 
             Master of Medicine 
             Master of Surgery 
             Doctor of Medicine 
             Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine 
             MD–PhD 
              
               Medical Scientist Training Program
              
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Alternative medicine 
             Allied health 
              
               Dentistry 
               Podiatry 
               Pharmacy 
               Physiotherapy
               
             Molecular oncology 
             Nanomedicine 
             Personalized medicine 
             Public health 
             Rural health 
             Therapy 
             Traditional medicine 
             Veterinary medicine 
             Physician 
              
               Chief physician
               
             History of medicine
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
              Wikiproject 
              Portal 
              Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         Medicine
        
        
         Society
        
        
         Health care
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Health_care&amp;oldid=1069533051"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Health care
       Primary care
       Public services
       Health care quality
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2017
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2019
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Pages using the Graph extension
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikivoyage
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Беларуская
       Български
       Буряад
       Català
       Čeština
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Қазақша
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       Bahasa Melayu
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 February 2022, at 19:38&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
