
 
  
   
  Collaborative software - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Collaborative software 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Groupware)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Type of application software
       
      Collaborative software or groupware is application software designed to help people working on a common task to attain their goals. One of the earliest definitions of groupware is "intentional group processes plus software to support them". 
      As regards available interaction, collaborative software may be divided into: real-time collaborative editing platforms that allow multiple users to engage in live, simultaneous and reversible editing of a single file (usually a document), and version control (also known as revision control and source control) platforms, which allow separate users to make parallel edits to a file, while preserving every saved edit by every user as multiple files (that are variants of the original file). 
      Collaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW). According to Carstensen and Schmidt (1999) groupware is part of CSCW. The authors claim that CSCW, and thereby groupware, addresses "how collaborative activities and their coordination can be supported by means of computer systems." 
      The use of collaborative software in the work space creates a collaborative working environment (CWE). 
      Finally, collaborative software relates to the notion of collaborative work systems, which are conceived as any form of human organization that emerges any time that collaboration takes place, whether it is formal or informal, intentional or unintentional. Whereas the groupware or collaborative software pertains to the technological elements of computer-supported cooperative work, collaborative work systems become a useful analytical tool to understand the behavioral and organizational variables that are associated to the broader concept of CSCW.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Groupware 
           
        2 Design and implementation 
          
          2.1 Levels of collaboration 
          2.2 Collaborative management (coordination) tools 
           
        3 Collaborative software and human interaction 
        4 See also 
          
          4.1 Closely related terms 
          4.2 Groupware type of applications 
          4.3 Other related type of applications 
          4.4 Other related terms 
          4.5 Lists of collaborative software 
           
        5 References 
          
          5.1 Citations 
          5.2 Sources 
           
        6 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       See also: MUD and Intelligence amplification §&nbsp;Douglas Engelbart: Augmenting Human Intellect
       
      Douglas Engelbart first envisioned collaborative computing in 1951 and documented his vision in 1962, with working prototypes in full operational use by his research team by the mid-1960s, and held the first public demonstration of his work in 1968 in what is now referred to as "The Mother of All Demos." The following year, Engelbart's lab was hooked into the ARPANET, the first computer network, enabling them to extend services to a broader userbase. 
      Online collaborative gaming software began between early networked computer users. In 1975, Will Crowther created Colossal Cave Adventure on a DEC PDP-10 computer. As internet connections grew, so did the numbers of users and multi-user games. In 1978 Roy Trubshaw, a student at University of Essex in the United Kingdom, created the game MUD (Multi-User Dungeon). 
      The US Government began using truly collaborative applications in the early 1990s. One of the first robust applications was the Navy's Common Operational Modeling, Planning and Simulation Strategy (COMPASS). The COMPASS system allowed up to 6 users to create point-to-point connections with one another; the collaborative session only remained while at least one user stayed active, and would have to be recreated if all six logged out. MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server that each user logged into. Called the Collaborative Virtual Workstation (CVW), this allowed the session to be set up in a virtual file cabinet and virtual rooms, and left as a persistent session that could be joined later. 
      In 1996, Pavel Curtis, who had built MUDs at PARC, created PlaceWare, a server that simulated a one-to-many auditorium, with side chat between "seat-mates", and the ability to invite a limited number of audience members to speak. In 1997, engineers at GTE used the PlaceWare engine in a commercial version of MITRE's CVW, calling it InfoWorkSpace (IWS). In 1998, IWS was chosen as the military standard for the standardized Air Operations Center. The IWS product was sold to General Dynamics and then later to Ezenia.  
      Groupware 
      Collaborative software was originally designated as groupware and this term can be traced as far back as the late 1980s, when Richman and Slovak (1987) wrote: "Like an electronic sinew that binds teams together, the new groupware aims to place the computer squarely in the middle of communications among managers, technicians, and anyone else who interacts in groups, revolutionizing the way they work." 
      Even further back, in 1978 Peter and Trudy Johnson-Lenz coined the term groupware; their initial 1978 definition of groupware was, "intentional group processes plus software to support them." Later in their article they went on to explain groupware as "computer-mediated culture... an embodiment of social organization in hyperspace." Groupware integrates co-evolving human and tool systems, yet is simply a single system. 
      In the early 1990s the first commercial groupware products were delivered, and big companies such as Boeing and IBM started using electronic meeting systems for key internal projects. Lotus Notes appeared as a major example of that product category, allowing remote group collaboration when the internet was still in its infancy. Kirkpatrick and Losee (1992) wrote then: "If GROUPWARE  really makes a difference in productivity long term, the very definition of an office may change. You will be able to work efficiently as a member of a group wherever you have your computer. As computers become smaller and more powerful, that will mean anywhere." In 1999, Achacoso created and introduced the first wireless groupware.  
      Design and implementation 
      The complexity of groupware development is still an issue. One reason for this is the socio-technical dimension of groupware. Groupware designers do not only have to address technical issues (as in traditional software development) but also consider the organizational aspects  and the social group processes that should be supported with the groupware application. Some examples for issues in groupware development are:  
      
       Persistence is needed in some sessions. Chat and voice communications are routinely non-persistent and evaporate at the end of the session. Virtual room and online file cabinets can persist for years. The designer of the collaborative space needs to consider the information duration needs and implement accordingly. 
       Authentication has always been a problem with groupware. When connections are made point-to-point, or when log-in registration is enforced, it's clear who is engaged in the session. However, audio and unmoderated sessions carry the risk of unannounced 'lurkers' who observe but do not announce themselves or contribute. 
       Until recently, bandwidth issues at fixed location limited full use of the tools. These are exacerbated with mobile devices. 
       Multiple input and output streams bring concurrency issues into the groupware applications. 
       Motivational issues are important, especially in settings where no pre-defined group process was in place. 
       Closely related to the motivation aspect is the question of reciprocity. Ellis and others have shown that the distribution of efforts and benefits has to be carefully balanced in order to ensure that all required group members really participate. 
       Real-time communication via groupware can lead to a lot of noise, over-communication and information overload.
       
      One approach for addressing these issues is the use of design patterns for groupware design. The patterns identify recurring groupware design issues and discuss design choices in a way that all stakeholders can participate in the groupware development process.  
      Levels of collaboration 
      Groupware can be divided into three categories depending on the level of collaboration:  
      
       Communication can be thought of as unstructured interchange of information. A phone call or an IM Chat discussion are examples of this. 
       Conferencing (or collaboration level, as it is called in the academic papers that discuss these levels) refers to interactive work toward a shared goal. Brainstorming or voting are examples of this. 
       Co-ordination refers to complex interdependent work toward a shared goal. A good metaphor for understanding this is to think about a sports team; everyone has to contribute the right play at the right time as well as adjust their play to the unfolding situation - but everyone is doing something different - in order for the team to win. That is complex interdependent work toward a shared goal: collaborative management.
       
      Collaborative management (coordination) tools 
      Collaborative management tools facilitate and manage group activities. Examples include:  
      
       Electronic calendars (also called time management software) — schedule events and automatically notify and remind group members 
       Project management systems — schedule, track, and chart the steps in a project as it is being completed 
       Online proofing — share, review, approve, and reject web proofs, artwork, photos, or videos between designers, customers, and clients 
       Workflow systems — collaborative management of tasks and documents within a knowledge-based business process 
       Knowledge management systems — collect, organize, manage, and share various forms of information 
       Enterprise bookmarking — collaborative bookmarking engine to tag, organize, share, and search enterprise data 
       Prediction markets — let a group of people predict together the outcome of future events 
       Extranet systems (sometimes also known as 'project extranets') — collect, organize, manage and share information associated with the delivery of a project (e.g.: the construction of a building) 
       Intranet systems — quickly share company information to members within a company via Internet (e.g.: marketing and product info) 
       Social software systems — organize social relations of groups 
       Online spreadsheets — collaborate and share structured data and information 
       Client portals — interact and share with your clients in a private online environment
       
      Collaborative software and human interaction 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section is written like a personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (September 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The design intent of collaborative software (groupware) is to transform the way documents and rich media are shared in order to enable more effective team collaboration. 
      Collaboration, with respect to information technology, seems to have several definitions. Some are defensible but others are so broad they lose any meaningful application. Understanding the differences in human interactions is necessary to ensure the appropriate technologies are employed to meet interaction needs. 
      There are three primary ways in which humans interact: conversations, transactions, and collaborations. 
      Conversational interaction is an exchange of information between two or more participants where the primary purpose of the interaction is discovery or relationship building. There is no central entity around which the interaction revolves but is a free exchange of information with no defined constraints, generally focused on personal experiences. Communication technology such as telephones, instant messaging, and e-mail are generally sufficient for conversational interactions. 
      Transactional interaction involves the exchange of transaction entities where a major function of the transaction entity is to alter the relationship between participants. 
      In collaborative interactions the main function of the participants' relationship is to alter a collaboration entity (i.e., the converse of transactional). When teams collaborate on projects it is called Collaborative project management.  
      See also 
      
       Collaboration technologies 
       Telecommuting
       
      
       
       Closely related terms 
       
        Computer supported cooperative work 
        Integrated collaboration environment
        
       Groupware type of applications 
       
        Content management system 
        Customer relationship management software 
        Document management system 
        Enterprise content management 
        Event management software 
        Intranet
        
       Other related type of applications 
       
        Massively distributed collaboration 
        Online consultation 
        Online deliberation
        
       Other related terms 
       
        Collaborative innovation network 
        Commons-based peer production 
        Electronic business 
        Information technology management 
        Management information systems 
        Management 
        Office of the future 
        Operational transformation 
        Organizational Memory System 
        Worknet 
        Cloud collaboration 
        Document collaboration 
        MediaWiki 
        Wikipedia
        
       Lists of collaborative software 
       
        List of collaborative software 
        List of social bookmarking websites 
        Intranet portal 
        Enterprise portal
        
       
      References 
      Citations 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Johnson-Lenz, Peter; Johnson-Lenz, Trudy (March 1991). "Post-mechanistic groupware primitives: rhythms, boundaries and containers". International Journal of Man-Machine Studies. 34 (3): 395–417. doi:10.1016/0020-7373(91)90027-5.  
         ^ 
           Carstensen, P.H.; Schmidt, K. (1999). "Computer supported cooperative work: new challenges to systems design". Citeseer.ist.psu.edu. Retrieved 2007-08-03.  
         ^ Beyerlein, M; Freedman, S.; McGee, G.; Moran, L. (2002). Beyond Teams: Building the Collaborative Organization. The Collaborative Work Systems series, Wiley.  
         ^ Wilson, P. (1991). Computer Supported Cooperative Work: An Introduction. Kluwer Academic Pub. 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0792314462  
         ^ Aparicio, M and Costa, C. (2012) Collaborative systems: characteristics and features. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM international conference on Design of communication (SIGDOC '12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 141-146. doi:10.1145/2379057.2379087  
         ^ Augmenting Human Intellect: A Conceptual Framework Archived 2011-05-04 at the Wayback Machine, Douglas C. Engelbart, 1962  
         ^ A Research Center for Augmenting Human Intellect, Douglas C. Engelbart and William K. English, 1968.  
         ^ 
           "1968 Demo Overview and Links to Video". Dougengelbart.org. Retrieved 2014-06-25.  
         ^ 
           Bullen, Christine V.; Bennett, John L. (1990). "Learning from user experience with groupware". Proceedings of the 1990 ACM conference on Computer-supported cooperative work - CSCW '90. Portal.acm.org. pp.&nbsp;291–302. doi:10.1145/99332.99362. ISBN&nbsp;0897914023. S2CID&nbsp;5295874. Retrieved 2014-06-25.  
         ^ Heritage of Delivering Successful Warfighting Solutions  
         ^ Collaborative virtual environments for analysis and decision support, Mark Mayburry  
         ^ 
           "(Press Release) InfoWorkSpace saves lives in Iraq - Ezenia!, Inc". Ezenia.com. Retrieved 2014-06-25.  
         ^ 
           "(Press Release) InfoWorkSpace - Ezenia!, Inc". Ezenia.com. Archived from the original on 2014-05-27. Retrieved 2014-06-25.  
         ^ 
           Richman, Louis S; Slovak, Julianne (June 8, 1987). "SOFTWARE CATCHES THE TEAM SPIRIT New computer programs may soon change the way groups of people work together -- and start delivering the long-awaited payoff from office automation.fouttoune". Money.cnn.com.  
         ^ 
           Johnson-Lenz, Peter (30 April 1990). "Rhythms, Boundaries, and Containers". Awakening Technology. Archived from the original on 9 September 2011. Retrieved 27 July 2011.  
         ^ 
           Kirkpatrick, D.; Losee, S. (March 23, 1992). "HERE COMES THE PAYOFF FROM PCs New network software lets brainstormers around a table all talk at once on their keyboards. The result: measurable productivity gains from desktop computing". Money.cnn.com.  
         ^ 
           "First Wireless Groupware Hits Palmtops: GroupServe Launches its Wireless-Accessible Discussion Service". merysis. December 7, 1999.  
         ^ 
           Richardson, Jake (January 31, 2000). "GroupServe gets $1M, new executive director". Washington Business Journal.  
         ^ 
           "GroupServe markets "in-time communications" to wireless business customers". RCR Wireless News. 1999-11-30. Retrieved 2019-11-11.  
         ^ D'Atri A., De Marco M., Casalino N. (2008). “Interdisciplinary Aspects of Information Systems Studies”, pp. 1-416, Physica-Verlag, Springer, Germany, Doi 10.1007/978-3-7908-2010-2 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-3-7908-2009-6.  
         ^ A Case Study in Technology Transfer of Collaboration Tools  
         ^ Collaborating securely - Can it be done?  
         ^ 
           Ellis, Clarence A.; Gibbs, Simon J.; Rein, Gail (1991). "Groupware: some issues and experiences" (PDF). Communications of the ACM. 34: 39–58. doi:10.1145/99977.99987. S2CID&nbsp;13597491.  
         ^ Till Schümmer and Stephan Lukosch. 2007. Patterns for Computer-Mediated Interaction (Wiley Software Patterns Series). John Wiley &amp; Sons. 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-02561-1  
         ^ 
           "Groupware - Communication, Collaboration and Coordination". Lotus Development Corporation. 1995. Archived from the original on July 13, 2011.  
         ^ Casalino N., Draoli M. (2009), “Governance and Organizational Aspects of an Experimental Groupware in the Italian Public Administration to Support Multi-Institutional Partnerships”, in Information Systems: People, Organizations, Institutions, and Trchnologies, D’Atri A., Saccà D. (Eds.), Physica-Verlag, Springer, Heidelberg, Germany, pp. 81-89, 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-3-7908-2147-5, doi 10.1007/978-3-7908-2148-2_11  
         ^ 
           Chaffey, Dave (1998). Groupware, Workflow, and Intranets: Reengineering the Enterprise with Collaborative Software. Boston: Digital Press.  
         ^ 
           Dunbar, R. I.; Marriott, A.; Duncan, N. D. (1997). "Human conversational behavior" (PDF). Human Nature&nbsp;: An Interdisciplinary Biosocial Perspective. 8 (3): 231–246. doi:10.1007/BF02912493. PMID&nbsp;26196965. S2CID&nbsp;1151885. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 November 2014. Retrieved 3 December 2014.  
        
       
       
      Sources 
      
       Lockwood, A. (2008). The Project Manager's Perspective on Project Management Software Packages. Avignon, France. Retrieved February 24, 2009. 
       Pedersen, A.A. (2008). Collaborative Project Management. Retrieved February 25, 2009. 
       Pinnadyne, Collaboration Made Easy. Retrieved November 15, 2009. 
       Romano, N.C., Jr., Nunamaker, J.F., Jr., Fang, C., &amp; Briggs, R.O. (2003). A Collaborative Project Management Architecture. Retrieved February 25, 2009. System Sciences, 2003. Proceedings of the 36th Annual Hawaii International Conference on Volume, Issue, 6-9 Jan. 2003 Page(s): 12 pp 
       M.Katerine (kit) Brown, Brenda Huetture, and Char James-Tanny (2007), Managing Virtual Teams: Getting the Most from Wikis, Blogs, and Other Collaborative Tools, Worldware Publishing, Plano. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1598220285
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Collaborative software.
         
       
       
      
        The dictionary definition of groupware at Wiktionary
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Groupware software
           
         
         
          
           
            Microsoft Teams&nbsp;· MediaWiki&nbsp;· TikiWiki
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Computer-mediated communication
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Online chat 
             Online discussion 
             Communication software 
             Collaborative software 
             Social network service 
             Virtual learning environment
             
           
         
         
          Asynchronous conferencing
          
            
            
             Email 
             Electronic mailing list 
             FidoNet 
             Usenet 
             Internet forum 
              
               Textboard 
               Imageboard
               
             Shoutbox 
             Bulletin board system 
             Online guestbook
             
           
         
         
          Synchronous conferencing
          
            
            
             Data conferencing 
             Instant messaging 
             Internet Relay Chat 
             LAN messenger 
             Talker 
             Videoconferencing 
             Voice over IP 
              
               Voice chat in online gaming
               
             Web chat 
             Web conferencing
             
           
         
         
          Publishing
          
            
            
             Blog 
             Microblogging 
             Wiki
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Collaborative_software&amp;oldid=1065900306"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Collaborative software
       Business software
       Groupware
       Multimodal interaction
       Computer-mediated communication
       Social software
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2018
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2016
       Wikipedia articles with style issues from September 2020
       All articles with style issues
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Македонски
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 15 January 2022, at 21:35&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
