
 
  
   
  Technological determinism - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Technological determinism 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Marxian economics
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts
           
           
             
             
              Capital&nbsp;(accumulation) 
              Capitalist mode of production 
              Class process 
              Commodity 
              Concrete and abstract labor 
              Constant capital 
              Critique of political economy 
              Exchange value 
              Exploitation 
              Labour power 
              Labour theory of value 
              Law of accumulation 
              Law of value 
              Means of production 
              Mode of production 
              Monopoly capitalism 
              Organic composition of capital 
              Productive forces 
              Profit 
              Prices of production 
              Primitive accumulation 
              Rate of exploitation 
              Rate of profit 
              Real prices and ideal prices 
              Relations of production 
              Reproduction 
              Reserve army of labour 
              Socially necessary labour time 
              Socialist mode of production 
              Socialization 
              Simple commodity production 
              Surplus value 
              Surplus labour 
              Surplus product 
              Use value 
              Wage labour 
              Wage slavery 
              Value-form 
              Value product 
              Variable capital
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Topics
           
           
             
             
              Capital controversy 
              Crisis theory 
              Economic determinism 
              Immiseration thesis 
              Imperialism 
              Historical materialism 
              Okishio's theorem 
              Overaccumulation 
              Overdetermination 
              Overproduction 
              Kondratiev wave 
              Technological determinism 
              Technological unemployment 
              
               
                Temporal single-systeminterpretation
                
              Falling profit-rate tendency 
              Transformation problem 
              Underconsumption 
              Value
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Variants
           
           
             
             
              Analytical Marxism 
              Classical Marxism 
              Orthodox Marxism 
              Neo-Marxian economics
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Works
           
           
             
             
              
               
                A Contribution to theCritique of Political Economy
                
              Das Kapital 
              Grundrisse 
              
               
                Economic and PhilosophicalManuscripts of 1844
                
              The Accumulation of Capital 
              Monopoly Capital 
              
               
                The Theory ofCapitalist Development
                
              Finance Capital
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
             
             
              Karl Marx 
              Friedrich Engels 
              Vladimir Lenin 
              Rosa Luxemburg 
              Rudolf Hilferding 
              Leon Trotsky 
              Karl Kautsky 
              Ernest Mandel 
              Antonie Pannekoek 
              János Kornai 
              Andrew Kliman 
              Richard D. Wolff 
              Nikolai Kondratiev 
              Paul Sweezy 
              Nobuo Okishio 
              Ian Steedman 
              John Roemer 
              David Laibman 
              Paul A. Baran 
              Stephen Resnick 
              Michał Kalecki
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Journals
           
           
             
             
              
               
                Cambridge Journal ofEconomics
                
              
               
                International Journal ofPolitical Economy
                
              Monthly Review 
              New School Economic Review 
              Real-World Economics Review 
              Rethinking Marxism 
              Science and Society
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related topics
           
           
             
             
              Evolutionary economics 
              Classical economics 
              Marxism 
              Marxist sociology 
              Neoclassical economics 
              Perspectives on capitalism 
              Political economy 
              Schools of economic thought 
              Socialist economics 
              Critiques of capitalism
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           Economics portal 
           Marxism portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       Reductionist theory
       
      Technological determinism is a reductionist theory that assumes that a society's technology determines the development of its social structure and cultural values. The term is believed to have originated from Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), an American sociologist and economist. The most radical technological determinist in the United States in the 20th century was most likely Clarence Ayres who was a follower of Thorstein Veblen and John Dewey. William Ogburn was also known for his radical technological determinism and his theory on cultural lag. 
      The first major elaboration of a technological determinist view of socioeconomic development came from the German philosopher and economist Karl Marx, who argued that changes in technology, and specifically productive technology, are the primary influence on human social relations and organizational structure, and that social relations and cultural practices ultimately revolve around the technological and economic base of a given society. Marx's position has become embedded in contemporary society, where the idea that fast-changing technologies alter human lives is pervasive. Although many authors attribute a technologically determined view of human history to Marx's insights, not all Marxists are technological determinists, and some authors question the extent to which Marx himself was a determinist. Furthermore, there are multiple forms of technological determinism.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origin 
        2 Explanation 
        3 Hard and soft determinism 
        4 Technology as neutral 
        5 Criticism 
        6 The stirrup 
        7 Notable technological determinists 
        8 Media determinism as a form of technological determinism 
        9 See also 
        10 Footnotes 
        11 References 
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
        
       
      Origin 
      
       
        
         
         
          
           This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (March 2015)
          
        
       
       
      The term is believed to have been coined by Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), an American social scientist. Veblen's contemporary, popular historian Charles A. Beard, provided this apt determinist image, "Technology marches in seven-league boots from one ruthless, revolutionary conquest to another, tearing down old factories and industries, flinging up new processes with terrifying rapidity." As to the meaning, it is described as the ascription to machines of "powers" that they do not have. Veblen, for instance, asserted that "the machine throws out anthropomorphic habits of thought." There is also the case of Karl Marx who expected that the construction of the railway in India would dissolve the caste system. The general idea, according to Robert Heilbroner, is that technology, by way of its machines, can cause historical change by changing the material conditions of human existence. 
      One of the most radical technological determinists was Clarence Ayres, who was a follower of Veblen's theory in the 20th century. Ayres is best known for developing economic philosophies, but he also worked closely with Veblen who coined the technological determinism theory. He often talked about the struggle between technology and ceremonial structure. One of his most notable theories involved the concept of "technological drag" where he explains technology as a self-generating process and institutions as ceremonial and this notion creates a technological over-determinism in the process.  
      Explanation 
      Technological determinism seeks to show technical developments, media, or technology as a whole, as the key mover in history and social change. It is a theory subscribed by "hyperglobalists" who claim that as a consequence of the wide availability of technology, accelerated globalization is inevitable. Therefore, technological development and innovation become the principal motor of social, economic or political change. 
      Strict adherents to technological determinism do not believe the influence of technology differs based on how much a technology is or can be used. Instead of considering technology as part of a larger spectrum of human activity, technological determinism sees technology as the basis for all human activity. 
      Technological determinism has been summarized as 'The belief in technology as a key governing force in society ...' (Merritt Roe Smith). 'The idea that technological development determines social change ...' (Bruce Bimber). It changes the way people think and how they interact with others and can be described as '...a three-word logical proposition: "Technology determines history"' (Rosalind Williams) . It is, '... the belief that social progress is driven by technological innovation, which in turn follows an "inevitable" course.' This 'idea of progress' or 'doctrine of progress' is centralised around the idea that social problems can be solved by technological advancement, and this is the way that society moves forward. Technological determinists believe that "'You can't stop progress', implying that we are unable to control technology" (Lelia Green). This suggests that we are somewhat powerless and society allows technology to drive social changes because, "societies fail to be aware of the alternatives to the values embedded in it " (Merritt Roe Smith). 
      Technological determinism has been defined as an approach that identifies technology, or technological advances, as the central causal element in processes of social change (Croteau and Hoynes). As a technology is stabilized, its design tends to dictate users' behaviors, consequently diminishing human agency. This stance however ignores the social and cultural circumstances in which the technology was developed. Sociologist Claude Fischer (1992) characterized the most prominent forms of technological determinism as "billiard ball" approaches, in which technology is seen as an external force introduced into a social situation, producing a series of ricochet effects. 
      Rather than acknowledging that a society or culture interacts with and even shapes the technologies that are used, a technological determinist view holds that "the uses made of technology are largely determined by the structure of the technology itself, that is, that its functions follow from its form" (Neil Postman). However, this is not to be confused with Daniel Chandler's "inevitability thesis", which states that once a technology is introduced into a culture that what follows is the inevitable development of that technology. 
      For example, we could examine why Romance Novels have become so dominant in our society compared to other forms of novels like the Detective or Western novel. We might say that it was because of the invention of the perfect binding system developed by publishers. This was where glue was used instead of the time-consuming and very costly process of binding books by sewing in separate signatures. This meant that these books could be mass-produced for the wider public. We would not be able to have mass literacy without mass production. This example is closely related to Marshall McLuhan's belief that print helped produce the nation state. This moved society on from an oral culture to a literate culture but also introduced a capitalist society where there was clear class distinction and individualism. As Postman maintains  
      
       The printing press, the computer, and television are not therefore simply machines which convey information. They are metaphors through which we conceptualize reality in one way or another. They will classify the world for us, sequence it, frame it, enlarge it, reduce it, argue a case for what it is like. Through these media metaphors, we do not see the world as it is. We see it as our coding systems are. Such is the power of the form of information.
       
      Hard and soft determinism 
      In examining determinism, hard determinism can be contrasted with soft determinism. A compatibilist says that it is possible for free will and determinism to exist in the world together, while an incompatibilist would say that they can not and there must be one or the other. Those who support determinism can be further divided. 
      Hard determinists would view technology as developing independent from social concerns. They would say that technology creates a set of powerful forces acting to regulate our social activity and its meaning. According to this view of determinism we organize ourselves to meet the needs of technology and the outcome of this organization is beyond our control or we do not have the freedom to make a choice regarding the outcome (autonomous technology). The 20th century French philosopher and social theorist Jacques Ellul could be said to be a hard determinist and proponent of autonomous technique (technology). In his 1954 work The Technological Society, Ellul essentially posits that technology, by virtue of its power through efficiency, determines which social aspects are best suited for its own development through a process of natural selection. A social system's values, morals, philosophy etc. that are most conducive to the advancement of technology allow that social system to enhance its power and spread at the expense of those social systems whose values, morals, philosophy etc. are less promoting of technology. While geography, climate, and other "natural" factors largely determined the parameters of social conditions for most of human history, technology has recently become the dominant objective factor (largely due to forces unleashed by the industrial revolution) and it has been the principal objective and determining factor. 
      Soft determinism, as the name suggests, is a more passive view of the way technology interacts with socio-political situations. Soft determinists still subscribe to the fact that technology is the guiding force in our evolution, but would maintain that we have a chance to make decisions regarding the outcomes of a situation. This is not to say that free will exists, but that the possibility for us to roll the dice and see what the outcome is exists. A slightly different variant of soft determinism is the 1922 technology-driven theory of social change proposed by William Fielding Ogburn, in which society must adjust to the consequences of major inventions, but often does so only after a period of cultural lag.  
      Technology as neutral 
      Individuals who consider technology as neutral see technology as neither good nor bad and what matters are the ways in which we use technology. An example of a neutral viewpoint is, "guns are neutral and its up to how we use them whether it would be 'good or bad'" (Green, 2001). Mackenzie and Wajcman believe that technology is neutral only if it's never been used before, or if no one knows what it is going to be used for (Green, 2001). In effect, guns would be classified as neutral if and only if society were none the wiser of their existence and functionality (Green, 2001). Obviously, such a society is non-existent and once becoming knowledgeable about technology, the society is drawn into a social progression where nothing is 'neutral about society' (Green). According to Lelia Green, if one believes technology is neutral, one would disregard the cultural and social conditions that technology has produced (Green, 2001). This view is also referred to as technological instrumentalism. 
      In what is often considered a definitive reflection on the topic, the historian Melvin Kranzberg famously wrote in the first of his six laws of technology: "Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral."  
      Criticism 
      Skepticism about technological determinism emerged alongside increased pessimism about techno-science in the mid-20th century, in particular around the use of nuclear energy in the production of nuclear weapons, Nazi human experimentation during World War II, and the problems of economic development in the Third World. As a direct consequence, desire for greater control of the course of development of technology gave rise to disenchantment with the model of technological determinism in academia. 
      Modern theorists of technology and society no longer consider technological determinism to be a very accurate view of the way in which we interact with technology, even though determinist assumptions and language fairly saturate the writings of many boosters of technology, the business pages of many popular magazines, and much reporting on technology. Instead, research in science and technology studies, social construction of technology and related fields have emphasised more nuanced views that resist easy causal formulations. They emphasise that "The relationship between technology and society cannot be reduced to a simplistic cause-and-effect formula. It is, rather, an 'intertwining'", whereby technology does not determine but "operates, and are operated upon in a complex social field" (Murphie and Potts). 
      T. Snyder approached the aspect of technological determinism in his concept: 'politics of inevitability'. A concept utilized by politicians in which society is promised the idea that the future will be only more of the present, this concept removes responsibility. This could be applied to free markets, the development of nation states and technological progress. 
      In his article "Subversive Rationalization: Technology, Power and Democracy with Technology," Andrew Feenberg argues that technological determinism is not a very well founded concept by illustrating that two of the founding theses of determinism are easily questionable and in doing so calls for what he calls democratic rationalization (Feenberg 210–212). 
      Prominent opposition to technologically determinist thinking has emerged within work on the social construction of technology (SCOT). SCOT research, such as that of Mackenzie and Wajcman (1997) argues that the path of innovation and its social consequences are strongly, if not entirely shaped by society itself through the influence of culture, politics, economic arrangements, regulatory mechanisms and the like. In its strongest form, verging on social determinism, "What matters is not the technology itself, but the social or economic system in which it is embedded" (Langdon Winner). 
      In his influential but contested (see Woolgar and Cooper, 1999) article "Do Artifacts Have Politics?", Langdon Winner illustrates not a form of determinism but the various sources of the politics of technologies. Those politics can stem from the intentions of the designer and the culture of the society in which a technology emerges or can stem from the technology itself, a "practical necessity" for it to function. For instance, New York City urban planner Robert Moses is purported to have built Long Island's parkway tunnels too low for buses to pass in order to keep minorities away from the island's beaches, an example of externally inscribed politics. On the other hand, an authoritarian command-and-control structure is a practical necessity of a nuclear power plant if radioactive waste is not to fall into the wrong hands. As such, Winner neither succumbs to technological determinism nor social determinism. The source of a technology's politics is determined only by carefully examining its features and history. 
      Although "The deterministic model of technology is widely propagated in society" (Sarah Miller), it has also been widely questioned by scholars. Lelia Green explains that, "When technology was perceived as being outside society, it made sense to talk about technology as neutral". Yet, this idea fails to take into account that culture is not fixed and society is dynamic. When "Technology is implicated in social processes, there is nothing neutral about society" (Lelia Green). This confirms one of the major problems with "technological determinism and the resulting denial of human responsibility for change. There is a loss of human involvement that shape technology and society" (Sarah Miller). 
      Another conflicting idea is that of technological somnambulism, a term coined by Winner in his essay "Technology as Forms of Life". Winner wonders whether or not we are simply sleepwalking through our existence with little concern or knowledge as to how we truly interact with technology. In this view, it is still possible for us to wake up and once again take control of the direction in which we are traveling (Winner 104). However, it requires society to adopt Ralph Schroeder's claim that, "users don't just passively consume technology, but actively transform it". 
      In opposition to technological determinism are those who subscribe to the belief of social determinism and postmodernism. Social determinists believe that social circumstances alone select which technologies are adopted, with the result that no technology can be considered "inevitable" solely on its own merits. Technology and culture are not neutral and when knowledge comes into the equation, technology becomes implicated in social processes. The knowledge of how to create and enhance technology, and of how to use technology is socially bound knowledge. Postmodernists take another view, suggesting that what is right or wrong is dependent on circumstance. They believe technological change can have implications on the past, present and future. While they believe technological change is influenced by changes in government policy, society and culture, they consider the notion of change to be a paradox, since change is constant. 
      Media and cultural studies theorist Brian Winston, in response to technological determinism, developed a model for the emergence of new technologies which is centered on the Law of the suppression of radical potential. In two of his books – Technologies of Seeing: Photography, Cinematography and Television (1997) and Media Technology and Society (1998) – Winston applied this model to show how technologies evolve over time, and how their 'invention' is mediated and controlled by society and societal factors which suppress the radical potential of a given technology.  
      The stirrup 
      
      
       Main article: Great Stirrup Controversy
       
      One continued argument for technological determinism is centered on the stirrup and its impact on the creation of feudalism in Europe in the late 8th century/early 9th century. Lynn White is credited with first drawing this parallel between feudalism and the stirrup in his book Medieval Technology and Social Change, which was published in 1962 and argued that as "it made possible mounted shock combat", the new form of war made the soldier that much more efficient in supporting feudal townships (White, 2). According to White, the superiority of the stirrup in combat was found in the mechanics of the lance charge: "The stirrup made possible- though it did not demand- a vastly more effective mode of attack: now the rider could law his lance at rest, held between the upper arm and the body, and make at his foe, delivering the blow not with his muscles but with the combined weight of himself and his charging stallion (White, 2)." White draws from a large research base, particularly Heinrich Brunner's "Der Reiterdienst und die Anfänge des Lehnwesens" in substantiating his claim of the emergence of feudalism. In focusing on the evolution of warfare, particularly that of cavalry in connection with Charles Martel's "diversion of a considerable part of the Church's vast military riches...from infantry to cavalry", White draws from Brunner's research and identifies the stirrup as the underlying cause for such a shift in military division and the subsequent emergence of feudalism (White, 4). Under the new brand of warfare garnered from the stirrup, White implicitly argues in favor of technological determinism as the vehicle by which feudalism was created. 
      Though an accomplished work, White's Medieval Technology and Social Change has since come under heavy scrutiny and condemnation. The most volatile critics of White's argument at the time of its publication, P.H. Sawyer and R.H. Hilton, call the work as a whole "a misleading adventurist cast to old-fashioned platitudes with a chain of obscure and dubious deductions from scanty evidence about the progress of technology (Sawyer and Hilton, 90)." They further condemn his methods and, by association, the validity of technological determinism: "Had Mr. White been prepared to accept the view that the English and Norman methods of fighting were not so very different in the eleventh century, he would have made the weakness of his argument less obvious, but the fundamental failure would remain: the stirrup cannot alone explain the changes it made possible (Sawyer and Hilton, 91)." For Sawyer and Hilton, though the stirrup may be useful in the implementation of feudalism, it cannot be credited for the creation of feudalism alone. 
      Despite the scathing review of White's claims, the technological determinist aspect of the stirrup is still in debate. Alex Roland, author of "Once More into the Stirrups; Lynne White Jr, Medieval Technology and Social Change", provides an intermediary stance: not necessarily lauding White's claims, but providing a little defense against Sawyer and Hilton's allegations of gross intellectual negligence. Roland views White's focus on technology to be the most relevant and important aspect of Medieval Technology and Social Change rather than the particulars of its execution: "But can these many virtues, can this utility for historians of technology, outweigh the most fundamental standards of the profession? Can historians of technology continue to read and assign a book that is, in the words of a recent critic, "shot through with over-simplification, with a progression of false connexions between cause and effect, and with evidence presented selectively to fit with  own pre-conceived ideas"? The answer, I think, is yes, at least a qualified yes (Roland, 574-575)." Objectively, Roland claims Medieval Technology and Social Change a variable success, at least as "Most of White's argument stands... the rest has sparked useful lines of research (Roland, 584)." This acceptance of technological determinism is ambiguous at best, neither fully supporting the theory at large nor denouncing it, rather placing the construct firmly in the realm of the theoretical. Roland neither views technological determinism as completely dominant over history nor completely absent as well; in accordance with the above criterion of technological determinist structure, would Roland be classified as a "soft determinist".  
      Notable technological determinists 
      Thomas L. Friedman, American journalist, columnist and author, admits to being a technological determinist in his book The World is Flat. 
      Futurist Raymond Kurzweil's theories about a technological singularity follow a technologically deterministic view of history. 
      Some interpret Karl Marx as advocating technological determinism, with such statements as "The Handmill gives you society with the feudal lord: the steam-mill, society with the industrial capitalist" (The Poverty of Philosophy, 1847), but others argue that Marx was not a determinist. 
      Technological determinist Walter J. Ong reviews the societal transition from an oral culture to a written culture in his work Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word (1982). He asserts that this particular development is attributable to the use of new technologies of literacy (particularly print and writing,) to communicate thoughts which could previously only be verbalized. He furthers this argument by claiming that writing is purely context dependent as it is a "secondary modelling system" (8). Reliant upon the earlier primary system of spoken language, writing manipulates the potential of language as it depends purely upon the visual sense to communicate the intended information. Furthermore, the rather stagnant technology of literacy distinctly limits the usage and influence of knowledge, it unquestionably effects the evolution of society. In fact, Ong asserts that "more than any other single invention, writing has transformed human consciousness" (Ong 1982: 78).  
      Media determinism as a form of technological determinism 
      Media determinism is a form of technological determinism, a philosophical and sociological position which posits the power of the media to impact society. Two foundational media determinists are the Canadian scholars Harold Innis and Marshall McLuhan. One of the best examples of technological determinism in media theory is Marshall McLuhan's theory "the medium is the message" and the ideas of his mentor Harold Adams Innis. Both these Canadian theorists saw media as the essence of civilization. The association of different media with particular mental consequences by McLuhan and others can be seen as related to technological determinism. It is this variety of determinism that is referred to as media determinism. According to McLuhan, there is an association between communications media/technology and language; similarly, Benjamin Lee Whorf argues that language shapes our perception of thinking (linguistic determinism). For McLuhan, media is a more powerful and explicit determinant than is the more general concept of language. McLuhan was not necessarily a hard determinist. As a more moderate version of media determinism, he proposed that our use of particular media may have subtle influences on us, but more importantly, it is the social context of use that is crucial. See also Media ecology. Media determinism is a form of the popular dominant theory of the relationship between technology and society. In a determinist view, technology takes on an active life of its own and is seen be as a driver of social phenomena. Innis believed that the social, cultural, political, and economic developments of each historical period can be related directly to the technology of the means of mass communication of that period. In this sense, like Dr. Frankenstein's monster, technology itself appears to be alive, or at least capable of shaping human behavior. However, it has been increasingly subject to critical review by scholars. For example, scholar Raymond Williams, criticizes media determinism and rather believes social movements define technological and media processes. With regard to communications media, audience determinism is a viewpoint opposed to media determinism. This is described as instead of media being presented as doing things to people; the stress is on the way people do things with media. Individuals need to be aware that the term "deterministic" is a negative one for many social scientists and modern sociologists; in particular they often use the word as a term of abuse.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Instrumental conception of technology 
        Compatibilism and incompatibilism 
        Democratic Rationalization 
        Democratic Transhumanism 
        Determinism 
        Hegemony 
        Historical materialism 
        History of science and technology 
        Orthodox Marxism 
        Philosophy of technology 
        Social constructivism 
        Social engineering (political science) 
        Social shaping of technology 
        Sociocultural evolution 
        Technology 
        Technological fix 
        Technological somnambulism 
        Technological utopianism 
        Theory of productive forces
        
       
      Footnotes 
      
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Smith &amp; Marx, Merrit Roe &amp; Leo (June 1994). Does Technology Drive History? The Dilemma of Technological Determinism. The MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0262691673.  
         ^ 
           Bimber, Bruce (May 1990). "Karl Marx and the Three Faces of Technological Determinism". Social Studies of Science. 20 (2): 333–351. doi:10.1177/030631290020002006. S2CID&nbsp;144204186.  
         ^ 
           Beard, Charles A. (February 1927). "Time, Technology, and the Creative Spirit in Political Science". The American Political Science Review. 21 (1): 1–11. doi:10.2307/1945535. JSTOR&nbsp;1945535.  
         ^ 
           Smith, Merritt; Marx, Leo (1994). Does Technology Drive History?: The Dilemma of Technological Determinism. Cambridge: MIT Press. p.&nbsp;70. ISBN&nbsp;978-0262193474.  
         ^ 
           Heilbroner, Robert (1999). The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers. New York: Simon and Schuster. pp.&nbsp;239. ISBN&nbsp;978-0684862149.  
         ^ 
           MacKenzie, Donald (1998). Knowing Machines: Essays on Technical Change. Cambridge: MIT Press. p.&nbsp;24. ISBN&nbsp;978-0262631884.  
         ^ 
           Mulberg, Jonathan (1995). Social Limits to Economic Theory. London: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;122. ISBN&nbsp;978-0415123860.  
         ^ 
           Kunz, William M. (2006). Culture Conglomerates: Consolidation in the Motion Picture and Television Industries. Publisher: Rowman &amp; Littlefield Publishers, Inc. p.&nbsp;2. ISBN&nbsp;978-0742540668.  
         ^ 
           Macmillan., Palgrave (2015). Global politics. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN&nbsp;9781137349262. OCLC&nbsp;979008143.  
         ^ 
           Does technology drive history?&nbsp;: the dilemma of technological determinism. Merritt Roe Smith, Leo Marx. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 1994. ISBN&nbsp;0-262-19347-7. OCLC&nbsp;28929481.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ Croteau and Hoynes, 2003  
         ^ Postman, Teaching as a Conserving Activity (1979), p. 39)  
         ^ Huesemann, Michael H., and Joyce A. Huesemann (2011). Technofix: Why Technology Won't Save Us or the Environment, "The Myth of Value-Neutrality", pp. 235-241, New Society Publishers, Gabriola Island, British Columbia, Canada, 
           ISBN&nbsp;0865717044.  
         ^ (1997)  
         ^ The road to unfreedom, Snyder, 2018  
         ^ 
           Green, Leila (2001). Technoculture: From Alphabet to Cybersex. Crows Nest: Allen &amp; Unwin. p.&nbsp;15. ISBN&nbsp;9781865080482.  
         ^ Technological or Media Determinism, Daniel Chandler  
         ^ Media Determinism in Cyberspace Archived 2010-05-29 at the Wayback Machine, Regent University  
         ^ 
           McLuhan, Marshall, Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man (PDF), archived from the original (PDF) on March 24, 2012  
         ^ 
           Hist, Martin. "One tweet does not a revolution make: Technological determinism, media and social change". Deakin University. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Williams, Raymond (1974). Television: Technology and Cultural Form. London and New York: Routledge. p.&nbsp;133. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-31456-5. Retrieved 28 May 2013.  
         ^ 
           Chandler, Daniel (18 September 1995), Technological or Media Determinism, archived from the original on April 21, 2015  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       G.A. Cohen, Karl Marx's Theory of History: A Defence, Oxford and Princeton, 1978. 
       
        Cowan, Ruth Schwartz (1983). More Work for Mother: The Ironies of Household Technology from the Open Hearth to the Microwave. New York: Basic Books. 
       
        Croteau, David; Hoynes, William (2003). Media Society: Industries, Images and Audiences ((third edition)&nbsp;ed.). Thousand Oaks: Pine Forge Press. pp.&nbsp;305–307. 
       
        Ellul, Jacques (1964). The Technological Society. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. 
       
        Green, Lelia (2002). Technoculture. Crows Nest: Allen &amp; Unwin. pp.&nbsp;1–20. 
       Huesemann, Michael H., and Joyce A. Huesemann (2011). Technofix: Why Technology Won't Save Us or the Environment, New Society Publishers, Gabriola Island, British Columbia, Canada, 
        ISBN&nbsp;0865717044, 464 pp. 
       
        Miller, Sarah (January 1997). "Futures Work – Recognising the Social Determinants of Change". Social Alternatives (vol.1, No.1&nbsp;ed.). pp.&nbsp;57–58. 
       
        Murphie, Andrew; Potts, John (2003). "1". Culture and Technology. London: Palgrave. p.&nbsp;21. 
       Ong, Walter J (1982). Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word. New York: Methuen. 
       
        Postman, Neil (1992). Technopoly: the Surrender of Culture to Technology. Vintage: New York. pp.&nbsp;3–20. 
       Roland, Alex. Once More into the Stirrups; Lynne White Jr, Medieval Technology and Social Change" Classics Revisited. 574- 585. 
       Sawyer, P.H. and R.H. Hilton. "Technical Determinism" Past &amp; Present. April 1963: 90-100. 
       
        Smith, Merritt Roe; Marx, Leo, eds. (1994). Does Technology Drive History? The Dilemma of Technological Determinism. Cambridge: MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780262691673. 
       
        Staudenmaier, S.J., John M. (1985). "The Debate over Technological Determinism". Technology's Storytellers: Reweaving the Human Fabric. Cambridge: The Society for the History of Technology and the MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;134–148. 
       
        Winner, Langdon (1977). Autonomous Technology: Technics-Out-of-Control as a Theme in Political Thought. Cambridge: MIT Press. 
       
        Winner, Langdon (1986). "Do Artefacts Have Politics?". The Whale and the Reactor. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p.&nbsp;26. 
       Winner, Langdon. "Technology as Forms of Life". Readings in the Philosophy of Technology. David M. Kaplan. Oxford: Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2004. 103–113 
       Woolgar, Steve and Cooper, Geoff (1999). "Do artefacts have ambivalence? Moses' bridges, Winner's bridges and other urban legends in S&amp;TS". Social Studies of Science 29 (3), 433–449. 
       
        White, Lynn (1966). Medieval Technology and Social Change. New York: Oxford University Press. 
       Furbank, P.N. "The Myth of Determinism." Raritan.  Fall 2006: 79–87. EBSCOhost. Monroe Community College Library, Rochester, NY. 2 April 2007. 
       Feenberg, Andrew. "Democratic Rationalization". Readings in the Philosophy of Technology. David M. Kaplan. Oxford: Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2004. 209–225 
       Chandler, Daniel. Technological or Media Determinism. 1995. 18 September 1995. &lt;http://www.aber.ac.uk/media/Documents/tecdet/tecdet.html&gt;
       
      External links 
      
       Colin Rule, "Is Technology Neutral?" 
       Megan McCormick, "Technology as Neutral" 
       Daniel Chandler, "Technological or Media Determinism" 
       Chris Kimble, "Technological Determinism and Social Choice"
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Science and technology studies
           
         
         
          Economics
          
            
            
             Economics of science 
             Economics of scientific knowledge
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History and philosophy of science 
             History of science 
              
               and technology
               
             History of technology
             
           
         
         
          Philosophy
          
            
            
             Anthropocene 
             Antipositivism 
             Empiricism 
             Fuzzy logic 
             Neo-Luddism 
             Philosophy of science 
             Philosophy of social science 
             Philosophy of technology 
             Positivism 
             Postpositivism 
             Religion and science 
             Scientism 
             Social constructivism 
             Social epistemology 
             Transhumanism
             
           
         
         
          Sociology
          
            
            
             Actor–network theory 
             Social 
              
               construction of technology 
               shaping of technology
               
             Sociology of knowledge 
              
               scientific
               
             Sociology of scientific ignorance 
             Sociology of the history of science 
             Sociotechnology 
             Strong programme
             
           
         
         
          Sciencestudies
          
            
            
             Antiscience 
             Bibliometrics 
             Boundary-work 
             Consilience 
             Criticism of science 
             Demarcation problem 
             Double hermeneutic 
             Logology 
             Mapping controversies 
             Metascience 
             Paradigm shift 
              
               black swan events
               
             Pseudoscience 
             Psychology of science 
             Science 
              
               citizen 
               communication 
               education 
               normal 
               Neo-colonial 
               post-normal 
               rhetoric 
               wars
               
             Scientific 
              
               community 
               consensus 
               controversy 
               dissent 
               enterprise 
               literacy 
               method 
               misconduct 
               priority 
               skepticism
               
             Scientocracy 
             Scientometrics 
             Team science 
             Traditional knowledge 
              
               ecological
               
             Unity of science 
             Women in science 
              
               STEM
              
             
           
         
         
          Technologystudies
          
            
            
             Co-production 
             Cyborg anthropology 
             Dematerialization 
             Digital anthropology 
             Digital media use and mental health 
             Early adopter 
             Hype cycle 
             Innovation 
              
               diffusion 
               disruptive 
               linear model 
               system 
               user
               
             Leapfrogging 
             Normalization process theory 
             Reverse salient 
             Skunkworks project 
             Sociotechnical system 
             Technical change 
             Technocracy 
             Technoscience 
              
               feminist
               
             Technological 
              
               change 
               convergence 
               determinism 
               revolution 
               transitions
               
             Technology 
              
               and society 
               criticism of 
               dynamics 
               theories of 
               transfer
               
             Engineering studies 
             Women in engineering 
             Financial technology
             
           
         
         
          Policy
          
            
            
             Academic freedom 
             Digital divide 
             Evidence-based policy 
             Factor 10 
             Funding of science 
             Horizon scanning 
             Science policy 
              
               history of 
               science of
               
             Politicization of science 
             Regulation of science 
             Research ethics 
             Right to science 
             Socio-scientific issues 
             Technology assessment 
             Technology policy 
             Transition management
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portals 
              
               Science 
               History of science 
               Technology
               
              Category 
              
               Associations 
               Journals 
               Scholars
              
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Determinism
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Biological 
             Cultural 
             Economic 
             Environmental 
             Genetic 
             Historical 
             Linguistic 
             Parametric 
             Psychological 
             Social 
             Technological 
             Theological
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Falliblism 
             Illusionism 
             Destiny 
             Deterministic system 
             Fatalism 
             Free will 
             Compatibilism 
             Hard determinism 
             Indeterminism 
             Predeterminism 
             Necessitarianism 
             Superdeterminism 
             Uncertainty principle 
             Libertarianism (metaphysics)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Technological_determinism&amp;oldid=1047068963"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Determinism
       History of technology
       Philosophy of technology
       Reductionism
       Science and technology studies
       Sociology of scientific knowledge
       Marxist theory
       Theories of history
       Technological change
       Thorstein Veblen
       Technology
       Technology systems
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: others
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be expanded from March 2015
       All articles to be expanded
       Articles using small message boxes
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2014
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2017
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Latina
       Latviešu
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 28 September 2021, at 20:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
