
 
  
   
  Iterative design - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Iterative design 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Design methodology based on a cyclic process of prototyping, testing, analyzing, &amp;refining
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Iterative design"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (January 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Iterative design is a design methodology based on a cyclic process of prototyping, testing, analyzing, and refining a product or process. Based on the results of testing the most recent iteration of a design, changes and refinements are made. This process is intended to ultimately improve the quality and functionality of a design. In iterative design, interaction with the designed system is used as a form of research for informing and evolving a project, as successive versions, or iterations of a design are implemented.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Object-Oriented Programming 
           
        2 Iterative design process 
          
          2.1 Application: Human computer interfaces 
           
        3 Iterative design use 
        4 Fast prototyping tools 
        5 Benefits 
        6 Marshmallow Challenge 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Interative design has long been used in engineering fields. One example is the plan–do–check–act cycle implemented in the 1960s. Most New product development or existing product improvement programs have a checking loop which is used for iterative purposes. DMAIC uses the Six Sigma framework and has such a checking function.  
      Object-Oriented Programming 
      Iterative design is connected with the practice of object-oriented programming, and the phrase appeared in computer science literature as early as 1990. The idea has its roots in spiral development, conceived of by Barry Boehm.  
      Iterative design process 
      The iterative design process may be applied throughout the new product development process. However, changes are easiest and less expensive to implement in the earliest stages of development. The first step in the iterative design process is to develop a prototype. The prototype should be evaluated by a focus group or a group not associated with the product in order to deliver non-biased opinions. Information from the focus group should be synthesized and incorporated into the next iteration of the design. The process should be repeated until user issues have been reduced to an acceptable level.  
      Application: Human computer interfaces 
      Iterative design is commonly used in the development of human computer interfaces. This allows designers to identify any usability issues that may arise in the user interface before it is put into wide use. Even the best usability experts cannot design perfect user interfaces in a single attempt, so a usability engineering lifecycle should be built around the concept of iteration. 
      The typical steps of iterative design in user interfaces are as follows:  
      
       Complete an initial interface design 
       Present the design to several test users 
       Note any problems had by the test user 
       Refine interface to account for/fix the problems 
       Repeat steps 2-4 until user interface problems are resolved
       
      Iterative design in user interfaces can be implemented in many ways. One common method of using iterative design in computer software is software testing. While this includes testing the product for functionality outside of the user interface, important feedback on the interface can be gained from subject testing early versions of a program. This allows software companies to release a better quality product to the public, and prevents the need of product modification following its release. 
      Iterative design in online (website) interfaces is a more continual process, as website modification, after it has been released to the user, is far more viable than in software design. Often websites use their users as test subjects for interface design, making modifications based on recommendations from visitors to their sites.  
      Iterative design use 
      Iterative design is a way of confronting the reality of unpredictable user needs and behaviors that can lead to sweeping and fundamental changes in a design. User testing will often show that even carefully evaluated ideas will be inadequate when confronted with a user test. Thus, it is important that the flexibility of the iterative design's implementation approach extends as far into the system as possible. Designers must further recognize that user testing results may suggest radical change that requires the designers to be prepared to completely abandon old ideas in favor of new ideas that are more equipped to suit user needs. Iterative design applies in many fields, from making knives to rockets. As an example consider the design of an electronic circuit that must perform a certain task, and must ultimately fit in a small space on a circuit board. It is useful to split these independent tasks into two smaller and simpler tasks, the functionality task, and the space and weight task. A breadboard is a useful way of implementing the electronic circuit on an interim basis, without having to worry about space and weight. 
      Once the circuit works, improvements or incremental changes may be applied to the breadboard to increase or improve functionality over the original design. When the design is finalized, one can set about designing a proper circuit board meeting the space and weight criteria. Compacting the circuit on the circuit board requires that the wires and components be juggled around without changing their electrical characteristics. This juggling follows simpler rules than the design of the circuit itself, and is often automated. As far as possible off the shelf components are used, but where necessary for space or performance reasons, custom made components may be developed. 
      Several instances of iterative design are as follows:  
      
       Wiki: A wiki is a natural repository for iterative design. The 'Page History' facility allows tracking back to prior versions. Modifications are mostly incremental, and leave substantial parts of the text unchanged. 
       Common law: The principle of legal precedent builds on past experience. This makes law a form of iterative design where there should be a clear audit trail of the development of legal thought. 
       Evolution: There is a parallel between iterative and the theory of natural Selection. Both involve a trial and error process in which the most suitable design advances to the next generation, while less suitable designs perish by the wayside. Subsequent versions of a product should also get progressively better as its producers learn what works and what doesn't in a process of refinement and continual improvement.
       
      Fast prototyping tools 
      One approach to iterative design is to use the highest level of abstraction for developing an early generation product. The principle here is that rapid development may not produce efficient code, but obtaining feedback is more important than technology optimization. Examples of this approach include use of non-functional code, object databases, or low code platforms - these allow quick testing of designs before issues of optimization are addressed.  
      Benefits 
      When properly applied, iterative design will ensure a product or process is the best solution possible. When applied early in the development stage, significant cost savings are possible. 
      Other benefits to iterative design include:  
      
       Serious misunderstandings are made evident early in the lifecycle, when it's possible to react to them. 
       It enables and encourages user feedback, so as to elicit the system's real requirements. 
       Where the work is contracted, Iterative Design provides an incremental method for more effectively involving the client in the complexities that often surround the design process. 
       The development team is forced to focus on those issues that are most critical to the project, and team members are shielded from those issues that distract and divert them from the project's real risks. 
       Continual testing enables an objective assessment of the project's status. 
       Inconsistencies among requirements, designs, and implementations are detected early. 
       The workload of the team, especially the testing team, is spread out more evenly throughout the lifecycle. 
       This approach enables the team to leverage lessons learned, and therefore to continually improve the process. 
       Stakeholders in the project can be given concrete evidence of the project's status throughout the lifecycle.
       
      Marshmallow Challenge 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Marshmallow challenge winning work.
        
       
       
      The Marshmallow Challenge is an instructive design challenge. It involves the task of constructing the highest possible free-standing structure with a marshmallow on top. The structure must be completed within 18 minutes using only 20 sticks of spaghetti, one yard of tape, and one yard of string. 
      Observation and studies of participants show that kindergartners are regularly able to build higher structures, in comparison to groups of business school graduates. This is explained by the tendency for children to at once stick the marshmallow on top of a simple structure, test the prototype, and continue to improve upon it. Whereas, business school students tend to spend time vying for power, planning, and finally producing a structure to which the marshmallow is added. The challenge helps to build and develop prototyping, teamwork, leadership and innovation skills and is a popular STEM activity. The challenge was invented by Peter Skillman of Palm, Inc. and popularized by Tom Wujec of Autodesk.  
      See also 
      
       Disruptive innovation 
       Extreme programming 
       Spiral model 
       Top-down and bottom-up design 
       Paper prototyping 
       Scrum (software development)
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Gossain, Sanjiv; Anderson, Bruce (1990). "An iterative-design model for reusable object-oriented software". Proceedings of the European conference on object-oriented programming on Object-oriented programming systems, languages, and applications - OOPSLA/ECOOP '90. pp.&nbsp;12–27. doi:10.1145/97945.97949. ISBN&nbsp;0-89791-411-2. S2CID&nbsp;551413.  
         ^ 
           "Summary of Spiral Model" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           Nielsen, J. (1993). "Iterative User Interface Design". IEEE Computer. 26 (11): 32–41. doi:10.1109/2.241424. S2CID&nbsp;17748574.  
         ^ 
           Mantei, Marilyn M.; Teorey, Toby J. (1988). "Cost/Benefit analysis for incorporating human factors in the software lifecycle". Communications of the ACM. 31 (4): 428–439. doi:10.1145/42404.42408. S2CID&nbsp;2031965.  
         ^ 
           "The Marshmallow Challenge". The Marshmallow Challenge. Retrieved 2010-08-10.  
         ^ 
           "The Marshmallow Challenge". CA: BPWrap. 2010-04-22. Retrieved 2010-08-10.  
         ^ 
           Jerz, Dennis G. (2010-05-10). "The Marshmallow Challenge - Jerz's Literacy Weblog". Jerz.setonhill.edu. Retrieved 2010-08-10.  
         ^ 
           Cameron, Chris (2010-04-23). "Marshmallows and Spaghetti: How Kindergartners Think Like Lean Startups". Readwriteweb.com. Archived from the original on 2010-08-21. Retrieved 2010-08-10.  
         ^ 
           "The Marshmallow Challenge". Engineeringrevision.com. 2010-05-02. Retrieved 2013-08-10.  
         ^ 
           "The Marshmallow Challenge". Selfish Programming. Retrieved 2013-08-10.  
         ^ 
           "Marshmallow challenge | Faculty of Science | University of Calgary". Ucalgary.ca. 2010-12-13. Retrieved 2013-08-10.  
         ^ 
           Original Design Challenge (2014-01-27), Peter Skillman Marshmallow Design Challenge, archived from the original on 2021-12-13, retrieved 2017-09-12  
        
       
       
      
       Boehm, Barry W. (May 1988) "A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement," Computer, IEEE, pp.&nbsp;61–72. 
       Gould, J.D. and Lewis, C. (1985). Designing for Usability: Key Principles and What Designers Think, Communications of the ACM, March, 28(3), 300–311. 
       Kruchten, Philippe. The Rational Unified Process—An Introduction, 
       
        Kruchten, P. (2000). "From Waterfall to Iterative Development – A Challenging Transition for Project Managers" (PDF) (White paper). Rational Software Corporation. Retrieved 2019-08-17. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
       
      External links 
      
       Iterative User Interface Design at useit.com 
       Association for Computing Machinery 
       Marshmallow Challenge official website 
       TED video on Marshmallow Challenge 
       Classroom images of Marshmallow Challenge
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Designer
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Disciplines
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Communicationdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Advertising 
                     Book design 
                     Brand design 
                     Exhibit design 
                     Film title design 
                     Graphic design 
                      
                       Motion 
                       Postage stamp design 
                       Print design
                       
                     Illustration 
                     Information design 
                     Instructional design 
                     News design 
                     Photography 
                     Retail design 
                     Signage&nbsp;/ Traffic sign design 
                     Typography&nbsp;/ Type design 
                     Video design 
                     Visual merchandising
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Environmentaldesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Architecture 
                     Architectural lighting design 
                     Building design 
                      
                       Passive solar
                       
                     Ecological design 
                     Environmental impact design 
                     Garden design 
                      
                       Computer-aided
                       
                     Healthy community design 
                     Hotel design 
                     Interior architecture 
                     Interior design 
                      
                       EID
                       
                     Keyline design 
                     Landscape architecture 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Landscape design 
                     Spatial design 
                     Urban design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Industrialdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Automotive design 
                     Automotive suspension design 
                     CMF design 
                     Corrugated box design 
                     Electric guitar design 
                     Furniture design 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Motorcycle design 
                     Packaging and labeling 
                     Photographic lens design 
                     Product design 
                     Production design 
                     Sensory design 
                     Service design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Interactiondesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Experience design 
                      
                       EED
                       
                     Game design 
                      
                       Level design 
                       Video game design
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Icon design 
                     Immersive design 
                     Information design 
                     Sonic interaction design 
                     User experience design 
                     User interface design 
                     Web design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherapplied arts
                  
                    
                    
                     Public art design 
                     Ceramic&nbsp;/ glass design 
                     Fashion design 
                      
                       Costume design 
                       Jewellery design
                       
                     Floral design 
                     Game art design 
                     Property design 
                     Scenic design 
                     Sound design 
                     Stage/set lighting design 
                     Textile design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherdesign&amp; engineering
                  
                    
                    
                     Algorithm design 
                     Behavioural design 
                     Boiler design 
                     Database design 
                     Drug design 
                     Electrical system design 
                     Experimental design 
                     Filter design 
                     Geometric design 
                     Work design 
                     Integrated circuit design 
                      
                       Circuit design 
                       Physical design 
                       Power network design
                       
                     Mechanism design 
                     Nuclear weapon design 
                     Nucleic acid design 
                     Organization design 
                     Process design 
                     Processor design 
                     Protein design 
                     Research design 
                     Social design 
                     Software design 
                     Spacecraft design 
                     Strategic design 
                     Systems design
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Approaches
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Activity-centered 
                 Adaptive web 
                 Affective 
                 Brainstorming 
                 By committee 
                 By contract 
                 C-K theory 
                 Closure 
                 Co-design 
                 Concept-oriented 
                 Configuration 
                 Contextual 
                 Continuous 
                 Cradle-to-cradle 
                 Creative problem-solving 
                 Creativity techniques 
                 Critical 
                  
                   Design fiction
                   
                 Defensive 
                 Design–bid–build 
                 Design–build 
                  
                   architect-led
                   
                 Diffuse 
                 Domain-driven 
                 Ecological design 
                 Energy neutral 
                 Engineering design process 
                  
                   Probabilistic design
                   
                 Error-tolerant 
                 Fault-tolerant 
                 Framework-oriented 
                 For assembly 
                 For behaviour change 
                 For manufacturability 
                 For Six Sigma 
                 For testing 
                 For X 
                 Functional 
                 Generative 
                 Geodesign 
                 HCD 
                 High-level 
                 Inclusive 
                 Integrated 
                 Integrated topside 
                 Intelligence-based 
                 Iterative 
                 KISS principle 
                 Low-level 
                 Metadesign 
                 Mind mapping 
                 Modular 
                 New Wave 
                 Object-oriented 
                 Open 
                 Parametric 
                 Participatory 
                 Platform-based 
                 Policy-based 
                 Process-centered 
                 Public interest 
                 Rational 
                 Regenerative 
                 Reliability engineering 
                 Research-based 
                 Responsibility-driven 
                 RWD 
                 Safe-life 
                 Sustainable 
                 Systemic 
                  
                   SOD
                   
                 Tableless web 
                 Theory of constraints 
                 Top-down and bottom-up 
                 Transformation 
                 Transgenerational 
                 TRIZ 
                 Universal 
                  
                   Design for All
                   
                 Usage-centered 
                 Use-centered 
                 User-centered 
                  
                   Empathic
                   
                 User innovation 
                 Value-driven 
                 Value sensitive 
                  
                   Privacy by
                  
                 
                
                 Design choice 
                 computing 
                 controls 
                 culture 
                 flow 
                 leadership 
                 management 
                 marker 
                 methods 
                 pattern 
                 research 
                 science 
                 sprint 
                 strategy 
                 theory 
                 thinking
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  Intellectual property
                  Organizations
                  Awards
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  
                    
                    
                     AAD 
                     Architectural model 
                     Blueprint 
                     Comprehensive layout 
                     CAD 
                      
                       CAID 
                       Virtual home design software
                       
                     CAutoD 
                     Design quality indicator 
                     Electronic design automation 
                     Flowchart 
                     Mockup 
                     Design specification 
                     Prototype 
                     Sketch 
                     Storyboard 
                     Technical drawing 
                     HTML editor 
                     Website wireframe
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Intellectualproperty
                  
                    
                    
                     Community design 
                     Design around 
                     Design infringement 
                     Design patent 
                     Fashion design copyright 
                     Geschmacksmuster 
                     Industrial design rights 
                      
                       European Union
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Organizations
                  
                    
                    
                     American Institute of Graphic Arts 
                     Chartered Society of Designers 
                     Design and Industries Association 
                     Design Council 
                     International Forum Design 
                     The Design Society 
                     Design Research Society
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Awards
                  
                    
                    
                     European Design Award 
                     German Design Award 
                     Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
                     Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
                     Graphex 
                     IF Product Design Award 
                     James Dyson Award 
                     Prince Philip Designers Prize
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related topics
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Aesthetics 
                 Agile 
                 Concept art 
                 Conceptual design 
                 Creative industries 
                 Cultural icon 
                 .design 
                 Enterprise architecture 
                 Form factor 
                 Futures studies 
                 Indie design 
                 Innovation management 
                 Intelligent design 
                 Lean startup 
                 New product development 
                 OODA loop 
                 Philosophy of design 
                 Process simulation 
                 Slow design 
                 STEAM fields 
                 Unintelligent design 
                 Visualization 
                 Wicked problem
                 
                
                 Design brief 
                 change 
                 classic 
                 competition 
                  
                   architectural 
                   student
                   
                 director 
                 education 
                 elements and principles 
                 engineer 
                 firm 
                 history 
                 knowledge 
                 language 
                 life 
                 load 
                 museum 
                 paradigm 
                 rationale 
                 review 
                 specification 
                 studies 
                 studio 
                 technology
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Commons  
              Wikibooks  
              Wikinews  
              Wikiquote  
              Wikisource  
              Wiktionary 
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Iterative_design&amp;oldid=1070136751"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Design
       Systems engineering
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from January 2011
       All articles needing additional references
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 5 February 2022, at 21:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
