
 
  
   
  Alexander Ivanovich Mikhailov - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Alexander Ivanovich Mikhailov 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Alexander Ivanovich Mikhailov, or A. I. Mikhailov ( December 6, 1905, Russian Empire – February 6, 1988, Moscow) was a Russian/Soviet Engineer and Information Scientist. He was one of the most influential thinkers related to the field of Information Science in the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc.  
      Biography 
      Mikhailov graduated in 1931 in Mechanical Engineering from the Mendeleev Institute and had a successful career in plane and aircraft engineering in the 1930s and 1940s. At the beginning of the 1950s, he participated in the creation and development of the Vserossijsky Institut Nauchnoi I Tekhnicheskoy Informatsii, or VINITI, an institute devoted to the study and practice of Scientific Information in Russia. The institute opened in 1952, and Mikhailov became director from October 1956 until his death. 
      From the 1960s to the 1980s, Mikhailov had considerable participation in the International Federation for Information and Documentation, became two times vice-director of the institute (1969 to 1976 - 1981 to 1988), coordinating the Study Committee Research on Theoretical Basis of Information, or FID/RI and became the editor-in-chief of the institute periodical, International Forum for Information and Documentation, between 1975 and 1988. 
      In the 1960s, he developed, with other authors, the concept of Informatics (Informatika in Russian), related to the study, organization and the dissemination of scientific information. His principal works in this field are the books Fundamentals of Scientific Information (1965), Fundamentals Of Informatics (1968) and Scientific Communications and Informatics (1976), all of them written with Arkadii Chernyi&nbsp; and Rudhzero Gilyarevskyi&nbsp;.  
      References 
      
       (1975) On The Occasion of the Seventieth Birthday Of Professor A. I. Mikhailov, Scientific and Technical Information Processing, volume 2, nº6, pgs. 67-73. 
       (1988) Alexander Ivanovich Mikhailov, Fid News Bulletin, Volume 38, issue 2.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Sweden
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alexander_Ivanovich_Mikhailov&amp;oldid=976486352"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1905 births
       1988 deaths
       Soviet engineers
       20th-century Russian engineers
       Soviet computer scientists
       Russian computer scientists
       D. Mendeleev University of Chemical Technology of Russia alumni
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Čeština
       Español
       Malagasy
       Português
       Русский
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 September 2020, at 06:06&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
