
 
  
   
  Technology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Technology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Application of scientific knowledge to devise and build machinery
       
      
      
       This article is about the use and knowledge of techniques and processes for producing goods and services. For other uses, see Technology (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A steam turbine with the case opened. Such turbines produce most of the electricity used today. Electricity consumption and living standards are highly correlated.
        
       
       
      Technology ("science of craft", from Greek τέχνη, techne, "art, skill, cunning of hand"; and -λογία, -logia) is the sum of any techniques, skills, methods, and processes used in the production of goods or services or in the accomplishment of objectives, such as scientific investigation. Technology can be the knowledge of techniques, processes, and the like, or it can be embedded in machines to allow for operation without detailed knowledge of their workings. Systems (e.g. machines) applying technology by taking an input, changing it according to the system's use, and then producing an outcome are referred to as technology systems or technological systems. 
      The simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools. The prehistoric invention of shaped stone tools followed by the discovery of how to control fire increased sources of food. The later Neolithic Revolution extended this, and quadrupled the sustenance available from a territory. The invention of the wheel helped humans to travel in and control their environment. 
      Developments in historic times, including the printing press, the telephone, and the Internet, have lessened physical barriers to communication and allowed humans to interact freely on a global scale. 
      Technology has many effects. It has helped develop more advanced economies (including today's global economy) and has allowed the rise of a leisure class. Many technological processes produce unwanted by-products known as pollution and deplete natural resources to the detriment of Earth's environment. Innovations have always influenced the values of a society and raised new questions in the ethics of technology. Examples include the rise of the notion of efficiency in terms of human productivity, and the challenges of bioethics. 
      Philosophical debates have arisen over the use of technology, with disagreements over whether technology improves the human condition or worsens it. Neo-Luddism, anarcho-primitivism, and similar reactionary movements criticize the pervasiveness of technology, arguing that it harms the environment and alienates people; proponents of ideologies such as transhumanism and techno-progressivism view continued technological progress as beneficial to society and the human condition.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Definition and usage 
        2 Science, engineering, and technology 
        3 History 
          
          3.1 Paleolithic (2.5 Ma&nbsp;– 10 ka) 
            
            3.1.1 Stone tools 
            3.1.2 Fire 
            3.1.3 Clothing and shelter 
             
          3.2 Neolithic through classical antiquity (10 ka&nbsp;– 300 CE) 
            
            3.2.1 Metal tools 
            3.2.2 Energy and transport 
            3.2.3 Plumbing 
             
          3.3 Medieval and modern history (300 CE&nbsp;– present) 
           
        4 Philosophy 
          
          4.1 Technicism 
          4.2 Optimism 
          4.3 Skepticism and critics 
          4.4 Appropriate technology 
          4.5 Optimism and skepticism in the 21st century 
          4.6 Complex technological systems 
           
        5 Other animal species 
        6 Future technology 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        
       
      Definition and usage 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The spread of paper and printing to the West, as in this printing press, helped scientists and politicians communicate their ideas easily, leading to the Age of Enlightenment; an example of technology as cultural force.
        
       
       
      The use of the term "technology" has changed significantly over the last 200 years. Before the 20th century, the term was uncommon in English, and it was used either to refer to the description or study of the useful arts or to allude to technical education, as in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (chartered in 1861). 
      The term "technology" rose to prominence in the 20th century in connection with the Second Industrial Revolution. The term's meanings changed in the early 20th century when American social scientists, beginning with Thorstein Veblen, translated ideas from the German concept of Technik into "technology." In German and other European languages, a distinction exists between technik and technologie that is absent in English, which usually translates both terms as "technology." By the 1930s, "technology" referred not only to the study of the industrial arts but to the industrial arts themselves. 
      In 1937, the American sociologist Read Bain wrote that "technology includes all tools, machines, utensils, weapons, instruments, housing, clothing, communicating and transporting devices and the skills by which we produce and use them." Bain's definition remains common among scholars today, especially social scientists. Scientists and engineers usually prefer to define technology as applied science, rather than as the things that people make and use. More recently, scholars have borrowed from European philosophers of "technique" to extend the meaning of technology to various forms of instrumental reason, as in Foucault's work on technologies of the self (techniques de soi). 
      Dictionaries and scholars have offered a variety of definitions. The Merriam-Webster Learner's Dictionary offers a definition of the term: "the use of science in industry, engineering, etc., to invent useful things or to solve problems" and "a machine, piece of equipment, method, etc., that is created by technology." Ursula Franklin, in her 1989 "Real World of Technology" lecture, gave another definition of the concept; it is "practice, the way we do things around here." The term is often used to imply a specific field of technology, or to refer to high technology or just consumer electronics, rather than technology as a whole. Bernard Stiegler, in Technics and Time, 1, defines technology in two ways: as "the pursuit of life by means other than life," and as "organized inorganic matter." 
      Technology can be most broadly defined as the entities, both material and immaterial, created by the application of mental and physical effort in order to achieve some value. In this usage, technology refers to tools and machines that may be used to solve real-world problems. It is a far-reaching term that may include simple tools, such as a crowbar or wooden spoon, or more complex machines, such as a space station or particle accelerator. Tools and machines need not be material; virtual technology, such as computer software and business methods, fall under this definition of technology. W. Brian Arthur defines technology in a similarly broad way as "a means to fulfill a human purpose."  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The invention of integrated circuits and the microprocessor (here, an Intel 4004 chip from 1971) led to the modern computer revolution.
        
       
       
      The word "technology" can also be used to refer to a collection of techniques. In this context, it is the current state of humanity's knowledge of how to combine resources to produce desired products, to solve problems, fulfill needs, or satisfy wants; it includes technical methods, skills, processes, techniques, tools and raw materials. When combined with another term, such as "medical technology" or "space technology," it refers to the state of the respective field's knowledge and tools. "State-of-the-art technology" refers to the high technology available to humanity in any field. 
      Technology can be viewed as an activity that forms or changes culture. Additionally, technology is the application of mathematics, science, and the arts for the benefit of life as it is known. A modern example is the rise of communication technology, which has lessened barriers to human interaction and as a result has helped spawn new subcultures; the rise of cyberculture has at its basis the development of the Internet and the computer. As a cultural activity, technology predates both science and engineering, each of which formalize some aspects of technological endeavor. In this sense, it remains connected with artistic endeavors.  
       
      Science, engineering, and technology 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Antoine Lavoisier experimenting with combustion generated by amplified sun light
        
       
       
      The distinction between science, engineering, and technology is not always clear. Science is systematic knowledge of the physical or material world gained through observation and experimentation. Technologies are not usually exclusively products of science, because they have to satisfy requirements such as utility, usability, and safety. 
      Engineering is the goal-oriented process of designing and making tools and systems to exploit natural phenomena for practical human means, often (but not always) using results and techniques from science. The development of technology may draw upon many fields of knowledge, including scientific, engineering, mathematical, linguistic, and historical knowledge, to achieve some practical result. 
      Technology is often a consequence of science and engineering, although technology as a human activity precedes the two fields. For example, science might study the flow of electrons in electrical conductors by using already-existing tools and knowledge. This new-found knowledge may then be used by engineers to create new tools and machines such as semiconductors, computers, and other forms of advanced technology. In this sense, scientists and engineers may both be considered technologists; the three fields are often considered as one for the purposes of research and reference. 
      The exact relations between science and technology, in particular, have been debated by scientists, historians, and policymakers in the late 20th century, in part because the debate can inform the funding of basic and applied science. In the immediate wake of World War II, for example, it was widely considered in the United States that technology was simply "applied science" and that to fund basic science was to reap technological results in due time. An articulation of this philosophy could be found explicitly in Vannevar Bush's treatise on postwar science policy, Science – The Endless Frontier: "New products, new industries, and more jobs require continuous additions to knowledge of the laws of nature&nbsp;... This essential new knowledge can be obtained only through basic scientific research." In the late-1960s, however, this view came under direct attack, leading towards initiatives to fund science for specific tasks (initiatives resisted by the scientific community). The issue remains contentious, though most analysts resist the model that technology is a result of scientific research.  
      History 
      
      
       Main articles: History of technology, Timeline of electrical and electronic engineering, and Timeline of historic inventions
       
      Paleolithic (2.5 Ma&nbsp;– 10 ka) 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A primitive chopper
        
       
       
      
      
       Further information: Outline of prehistoric technology
       
      The use of tools by early humans was partly a process of discovery and of evolution. Early humans evolved from a species of foraging hominids which were already bipedal, with a brain mass approximately one third of modern humans. Tool use remained relatively unchanged for most of early human history. Approximately 50,000 years ago, the use of tools and a complex set of behaviors emerged, believed by many archaeologists to be connected to the emergence of fully modern language.  
      Stone tools 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Hand axes from the Acheulian period
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A campfire, often used to cook food
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A Clovis point, made via pressure flaking
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A metal axe, estimated creation from 1600 to 1700 pressure flaking
        
       
       
      Hominids started using primitive stone tools millions of years ago. The earliest stone tools were little more than a fractured rock, but approximately 75,000 years ago, pressure flaking provided a way to make much finer work.  
      Fire 
      
      
       Main article: Control of fire by early humans
       
      The discovery and use of fire, a simple energy source with many profound uses, was a turning point in the technological evolution of humankind. The exact date of its discovery is not known; evidence of burnt animal bones at the Cradle of Humankind suggests that the domestication of fire occurred before 1 Ma; scholarly consensus indicates that Homo erectus had controlled fire by between 500 and 400 ka. Fire, fueled with wood and charcoal, allowed early humans to cook their food to increase its digestibility, improving its nutrient value and broadening the number of foods that could be eaten.  
      Clothing and shelter 
      Other technological advances made during the Paleolithic era were clothing and shelter; the adoption of both technologies cannot be dated exactly, but they were a key to humanity's progress. As the Paleolithic era progressed, dwellings became more sophisticated and more elaborate; as early as 380 ka, humans were constructing temporary wood huts. Clothing, adapted from the fur and hides of hunted animals, helped humanity expand into colder regions; humans began to migrate out of Africa by 200 ka and into other continents such as Eurasia.  
      Neolithic through classical antiquity (10 ka&nbsp;– 300 CE) 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An array of Neolithic artifacts, including bracelets, axe heads, chisels, and polishing tools
        
       
       
      Human's technological ascent began in earnest in what is known as the Neolithic Period ("New Stone Age"). The invention of polished stone axes was a major advance that allowed forest clearance on a large scale to create farms. This use of polished stone axes increased greatly in the Neolithic, but were originally used in the preceding Mesolithic in some areas such as Ireland. Agriculture fed larger populations, and the transition to sedentism allowed simultaneously raising more children, as infants no longer needed to be carried, as nomadic ones must. Additionally, children could contribute labor to the raising of crops more readily than they could to the hunter-gatherer economy. 
      With this increase in population and availability of labor came an increase in labor specialization. What triggered the progression from early Neolithic villages to the first cities, such as Uruk, and the first civilizations, such as Sumer, is not specifically known; however, the emergence of increasingly hierarchical social structures and specialized labor, of trade and war amongst adjacent cultures, and the need for collective action to overcome environmental challenges such as irrigation, are all thought to have played a role.  
      Metal tools 
      Continuing improvements led to the furnace and bellows and provided, for the first time, the ability to smelt and forge gold, copper, silver, and lead &nbsp;– native metals found in relatively pure form in nature. The advantages of copper tools over stone, bone, and wooden tools were quickly apparent to early humans, and native copper was probably used from near the beginning of Neolithic times (about 10 ka). Native copper does not naturally occur in large amounts, but copper ores are quite common and some of them produce metal easily when burned in wood or charcoal fires. Eventually, the working of metals led to the discovery of alloys such as bronze and brass (about 4000 BCE). The first uses of iron alloys such as steel dates to around 1800 BCE.  
      Energy and transport 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The wheel was invented circa 4000 BCE.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: History of transport
       
      Meanwhile, humans were learning to harness other forms of energy. The earliest known use of wind power is the sailing ship; the earliest record of a ship under sail is that of a Nile boat dating to the 8th-millennium BCE. From prehistoric times, Egyptians probably used the power of the annual flooding of the Nile to irrigate their lands, gradually learning to regulate much of it through purposely built irrigation channels and "catch" basins. The ancient Sumerians in Mesopotamia used a complex system of canals and levees to divert water from the Tigris and Euphrates rivers for irrigation.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Gibson Technology GL458
        
       
       
      According to archaeologists, the wheel was invented around 4000 BCE probably independently and nearly simultaneously in Mesopotamia (in present-day Iraq), the Northern Caucasus (Maykop culture) and Central Europe. Estimates on when this may have occurred range from 5500 to 3000 BCE with most experts putting it closer to 4000 BCE. The oldest artifacts with drawings depicting wheeled carts date from about 3500 BCE; however, the wheel may have been in use for millennia before these drawings were made. More recently, the oldest-known wooden wheel in the world was found in the Ljubljana marshes of Slovenia. 
      The invention of the wheel revolutionized trade and war. It did not take long to discover that wheeled wagons could be used to carry heavy loads. The ancient Sumerians used the potter's wheel and may have invented it. A stone pottery wheel found in the city-state of Ur dates to around 3429 BCE, and even older fragments of wheel-thrown pottery have been found in the same area. Fast (rotary) potters' wheels enabled early mass production of pottery, but it was the use of the wheel as a transformer of energy (through water wheels, windmills, and even treadmills) that revolutionized the application of nonhuman power sources. The first two-wheeled carts were derived from travois and were first used in Mesopotamia and Iran in around 3000 BCE. 
      The oldest known constructed roadways are the stone-paved streets of the city-state of Ur, dating to circa 4000 BCE and timber roads leading through the swamps of Glastonbury, England, dating to around the same time period. The first long-distance road, which came into use around 3500 BCE, spanned 1,500 miles from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea, but was not paved and was only partially maintained. In around 2000 BCE, the Minoans on the Greek island of Crete built a fifty-kilometer (thirty-mile) road leading from the palace of Gortyn on the south side of the island, through the mountains, to the palace of Knossos on the north side of the island. Unlike the earlier road, the Minoan road was completely paved.  
      Plumbing 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Photograph of the Pont du Gard in France, one of the most famous ancient Roman aqueducts
        
       
       
      Ancient Minoan private homes had running water. A bathtub virtually identical to modern ones was unearthed at the Palace of Knossos. Several Minoan private homes also had toilets, which could be flushed by pouring water down the drain. The ancient Romans had many public flush toilets, which emptied into an extensive sewage system. The primary sewer in Rome was the Cloaca Maxima; construction began on it in the sixth century BCE and it is still in use today. 
      The ancient Romans also had a complex system of aqueducts, which were used to transport water across long distances. The first Roman aqueduct was built in 312 BCE. The eleventh and final ancient Roman aqueduct was built in 226 CE. Put together, the Roman aqueducts extended over 450 kilometers, but less than seventy kilometers of this was above ground and supported by arches.  
      Medieval and modern history (300 CE&nbsp;– present) 
      
      
       Main articles: Medieval technology, Renaissance technology, Industrial Revolution, Second Industrial Revolution, Information Technology, and Productivity improving technologies (economic history)
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The card catalog, a technology developed in the 19th century, became ubiquitous in the 20th century.
        
       
       
      Innovations continued through the Middle Ages with innovations such as silk-manufacture (introduced into Europe after centuries of development in Asia), the horse collar and horseshoes in the first few hundred years after the 5th-century fall of the Roman Empire. Medieval technology saw the use of simple machines (such as the lever, the screw, and the pulley) being combined to form more complicated tools, such as the wheelbarrow, windmills and clocks, and a system of universities developed and spread scientific ideas and practices. The Renaissance era produced many innovations, including the printing press (which facilitated the communication of knowledge), and technology became increasingly associated with science, beginning a cycle of mutual advancement. Advances in technology in this era allowed a more reliable supply of food, followed by the wider availability of consumer goods.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The automobile revolutionized personal transportation.
        
       
       
      Starting in the United Kingdom in the 18th century, the Industrial Revolution was a period of great technological discovery, particularly in the areas of agriculture, manufacturing, mining, metallurgy, and transport, driven by the discovery of steam power and the widespread application of the factory system. Technology took another step in a second industrial revolution (c.  1870 to c.  1914) with the harnessing of electricity to allow such innovations as the electric motor, light bulb, and countless others. Scientific advances and the discovery of new concepts later allowed for powered flight and developments in medicine, chemistry, physics, and engineering. The rise in technology has led to skyscrapers and broad urban areas whose inhabitants rely on motors to transport them and their food supplies. Communication improved with the invention of the telegraph, telephone, radio and television. The late-19th and early-20th centuries saw a revolution in transportation with the invention of the airplane and automobile.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         F-15 and F-16 flying over Kuwaiti oil fires during the Gulf War in 1991.
        
       
       
      The 20th century brought a host of innovations. In physics, the discovery of nuclear fission has led to both nuclear weapons and nuclear power. Computers were invented and later miniaturized using transistors and integrated circuits. Information technology, particularly the optical fiber and optical amplifiers that led to the birth of the Internet, which ushered in the Information Age. Humans started to explore space with satellites (late 1950s, later used for telecommunication) and in crewed missions (1960s) going all the way to the moon. In medicine, this era brought innovations such as open-heart surgery and later stem-cell therapy along with new medications and treatments using genomics. 
      Complex manufacturing and construction techniques and organizations are needed to make and maintain some of the newer technologies, and entire industries have arisen to support and develop succeeding generations of increasingly more complex tools. Modern technology increasingly relies on training and education&nbsp;– their designers, builders, maintainers, and users often require sophisticated general and specific training. Moreover, these technologies have become so complex that entire fields have developed to support them, including engineering, medicine, and computer science; and other fields have become more complex, such as construction, transportation, and architecture.  
      Philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of technology
       
      Technicism 
      Generally, technicism is the belief in the utility of technology for improving human societies. Taken to an extreme, technicism "reflects a fundamental attitude which seeks to control reality, to resolve all problems with the use of scientific–technological methods and tools." In other words, human beings will someday be able to master all problems and possibly even control the future using technology. Some, such as Stephen V. Monsma, connect these ideas to the abdication of religion as a higher moral authority.  
      Optimism 
      
      
       See also: Extropianism and Technological optimism
       
      Optimistic assumptions are made by proponents of ideologies such as transhumanism and singularitarianism, which view technological development as generally having beneficial effects for the society and the human condition. In these ideologies, technological development is morally good. 
      Transhumanists generally believe that the point of technology is to overcome barriers, and that what we commonly refer to as the human condition is just another barrier to be surpassed. 
      Singularitarians believe in some sort of "accelerating change"; that the rate of technological progress accelerates as we obtain more technology, and that this will culminate in a "Singularity" after artificial general intelligence is invented in which progress is nearly infinite; hence the term. Estimates for the date of this Singularity vary, but prominent futurist Ray Kurzweil estimates the Singularity will occur in 2045. 
      Kurzweil is also known for his history of the universe in six epochs: (1) the physical/chemical epoch, (2) the life epoch, (3) the human/brain epoch, (4) the technology epoch, (5) the artificial intelligence epoch, and (6) the universal colonization epoch. Going from one epoch to the next is a Singularity in its own right, and a period of speeding up precedes it. Each epoch takes a shorter time, which means the whole history of the universe is one giant Singularity event. 
      Some critics see these ideologies as examples of scientism and techno-utopianism and fear the notion of human enhancement and technological singularity which they support. Some have described Karl Marx as a techno-optimist.  
      Skepticism and critics 
      
      
       See also: Luddite, Neo-Luddism, Anarcho-primitivism, and Bioconservatism
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Luddites smashing a power loom in 1812
        
       
       
      On the somewhat skeptical side are certain philosophers like Herbert Marcuse and John Zerzan, who believe that technological societies are inherently flawed. They suggest that the inevitable result of such a society is to become evermore technological at the cost of freedom and psychological health. 
      Many, such as the Luddites and prominent philosopher Martin Heidegger, hold serious, although not entirely, deterministic reservations about technology (see "The Question Concerning Technology"). According to Heidegger scholars Hubert Dreyfus and Charles Spinosa, "Heidegger does not oppose technology. He hopes to reveal the essence of technology in a way that 'in no way confines us to a stultified compulsion to push on blindly with technology or, what comes to the same thing, to rebel helplessly against it.' Indeed, he promises that 'when we once open ourselves expressly to the essence of technology, we find ourselves unexpectedly taken into a freeing claim.' What this entails is a more complex relationship to technology than either techno-optimists or techno-pessimists tend to allow." 
      Some of the most poignant criticisms of technology are found in what are now considered to be dystopian literary classics such as Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork Orange, and George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four. In Goethe's Faust, Faust selling his soul to the devil in return for power over the physical world is also often interpreted as a metaphor for the adoption of industrial technology. More recently, modern works of science fiction such as those by Philip K. Dick and William Gibson and films such as Blade Runner and Ghost in the Shell project highly ambivalent or cautionary attitudes toward technology's impact on human society and identity. 
      The late cultural critic Neil Postman distinguished tool-using societies from technological societies and from what he called "technopolies," societies that are dominated by the ideology of technological and scientific progress to the exclusion or harm of other cultural practices, values, and world-views. 
      Darin Barney has written about technology's impact on practices of citizenship and democratic culture, suggesting that technology can be construed as (1) an object of political debate, (2) a means or medium of discussion, and (3) a setting for democratic deliberation and citizenship. As a setting for democratic culture, Barney suggests that technology tends to make ethical questions, including the question of what a good life consists in, nearly impossible because they already give an answer to the question: a good life is one that includes the use of more and more technology. 
      Nikolas Kompridis has also written about the dangers of new technology, such as genetic engineering, nanotechnology, synthetic biology, and robotics. He warns that these technologies introduce unprecedented new challenges to human beings, including the possibility of the permanent alteration of our biological nature. These concerns are shared by other philosophers, scientists and public intellectuals who have written about similar issues (e.g. Francis Fukuyama, Jürgen Habermas, William Joy, and Michael Sandel). 
      Another prominent critic of technology is Hubert Dreyfus, who has published books such as On the Internet and What Computers Still Can't Do. 
      A more infamous anti-technological treatise is Industrial Society and Its Future, written by the Unabomber Ted Kaczynski and printed in several major newspapers (and later books) as part of an effort to end his bombing campaign of the techno-industrial infrastructure. There are also subcultures that disapprove of some or most technology, such as self-identified off-gridders.  
      Appropriate technology 
      
      
       See also: Technocriticism and Technorealism
       
      The notion of appropriate technology was developed in the 20th century by thinkers such as E.F. Schumacher and Jacques Ellul to describe situations where it was not desirable to use very new technologies or those that required access to some centralized infrastructure or parts or skills imported from elsewhere. The ecovillage movement emerged in part due to this concern.  
      Optimism and skepticism in the 21st century 
      This section mainly focuses on American concerns even if it can reasonably be generalized to other Western countries.   
      
      
       The inadequate quantity and quality of American jobs is one of the most fundamental economic challenges we face.  What's the linkage between technology and this fundamental problem?
       
        — Bernstein, Jared, "It’s Not a Skills Gap That’s Holding Wages Down: It’s the Weak Economy, Among Other Things," in The American Prospect, October 2014
       
       
      In his article, Jared Bernstein, a Senior Fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, questions the widespread idea that automation, and more broadly, technological advances, have mainly contributed to this growing labor market problem. His thesis appears to be a third way between optimism and skepticism. Essentially, he stands for a neutral approach of the linkage between technology and American issues concerning unemployment and declining wages. 
      He uses two main arguments to defend his point. First, because of recent technological advances, an increasing number of workers are losing their jobs. Yet, scientific evidence fails to clearly demonstrate that technology has displaced so many workers that it has created more problems than it has solved. Indeed, automation threatens repetitive jobs but higher-end jobs are still necessary because they complement technology and manual jobs that "requires flexibility judgment and common sense" remain hard to replace with machines. Second, studies have not shown clear links between recent technology advances and the wage trends of the last decades. 
      Therefore, according to Bernstein, instead of focusing on technology and its hypothetical influences on current American increasing unemployment and declining wages, one needs to worry more about "bad policy that fails to offset the imbalances in demand, trade, income, and opportunity."  
      Complex technological systems 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The rear wheel of a bicycle
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The flame of a gas stove.
        
       
       
      Thomas P. Hughes stated that because technology has been considered as a key way to solve problems, we need to be aware of its complex and varied characters to use it more efficiently. What is the difference between a wheel or a compass and cooking machines such as an oven or a gas stove? Can we consider all of them, only a part of them, or none of them as technologies? 
      Technology is often considered too narrowly; according to Hughes, "Technology is a creative process involving human ingenuity". This definition's emphasis on creativity avoids unbounded definitions that may mistakenly include cooking "technologies," but it also highlights the prominent role of humans and therefore their responsibilities for the use of complex technological systems. 
      Yet, because technology is everywhere and has dramatically changed landscapes and societies, Hughes argues that engineers, scientists, and managers have often believed that they can use technology to shape the world as they want. They have often supposed that technology is easily controllable and this assumption has to be thoroughly questioned. For instance, Evgeny Morozov particularly challenges two concepts: "Internet-centrism" and "solutionism." Internet-centrism refers to the idea that our society is convinced that the Internet is one of the most stable and coherent forces. Solutionism is the ideology that every social issue can be solved thanks to technology and especially thanks to the internet. In fact, technology intrinsically contains uncertainties and limitations. According to Alexis Madrigal's review of Morozov's theory, to ignore it will lead to "unexpected consequences that could eventually cause more damage than the problems they seek to address." Benjamin R. Cohen and Gwen Ottinger also discussed the multivalent effects of technology. 
      Therefore, recognition of the limitations of technology, and more broadly, scientific knowledge, is needed&nbsp;– especially in cases dealing with environmental justice and health issues. Ottinger continues this reasoning and argues that the ongoing recognition of the limitations of scientific knowledge goes hand in hand with scientists and engineers’ new comprehension of their role. Such an approach of technology and science " technical professionals to conceive of their roles in the process differently.  collaborators in research and problem solving rather than simply providers of information and technical solutions."  
      Other animal species 
      
      
       See also: Tool use by animals, Structures built by animals, and Ecosystem engineer
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         This adult gorilla uses a branch as a walking stick to gauge the water's depth, an example of technology usage by non-human primates.
        
       
       
      The use of basic technology is also a feature of other animal species apart from humans. These include primates such as chimpanzees, some dolphin communities, and crows. Considering a more generic perspective of technology as ethology of active environmental conditioning and control, we can also refer to animal examples such as beavers and their dams, or bees and their honeycombs. 
      The ability to make and use tools was once considered a defining characteristic of the genus Homo. However, the discovery of tool construction among chimpanzees and related primates has discarded the notion of the use of technology as unique to humans. For example, researchers have observed wild chimpanzees using tools for foraging: some of the tools used include leaf sponges, termite fishing probes, pestles and levers. West African chimpanzees also use stone hammers and anvils for cracking nuts, as do capuchin monkeys of Boa Vista, Brazil.  
      Future technology 
      
      
       Main article: Emerging technologies
       
      Theories of technology often attempt to predict the future of technology based on the high technology and science of the time. As with all predictions of the future, however, technology is uncertain. 
      In 2005, futurist Ray Kurzweil predicted that the future of technology would mainly consist of an overlapping "GNR Revolution" of genetics, nanotechnology and robotics, with robotics being the most important of the three. This future revolution has been explored in films, novels, and video games, which have predicted the creation of many inventions, as well as foreseeing future events. Such inventions and events include a government-controlled simulation that resulted from massive robotics advancements (The Matrix), a society that has rid itself of procreation due to improvements in genetic engineering (Brave New World), and a police state enforced by the government using datamining, nanobots, and drones (Watch Dogs). Humans have already made some of the first steps toward achieving the GNR revolution. 
      Recent discoveries and ingenuity has allowed us to create robotics in the form of Artificial Intelligence, as well as in the physical form of robots. Artificial intelligence has been used for a variety of purposes, including personal assistants in a smart phone, the first of which was Siri, released in the iPhone 4S in 2011 by Apple. Some believe that the future of robotics will involve a 'greater than human non-biological intelligence.' This concept can be compared to that of a 'rogue AI,' an artificial intelligence that has gained self-awareness, and tries to eradicate humanity. Others believe that the future will involve AI servants creating an easy and effortless life for humankind, where robots have become the primary work force. This future shares many similarities with the concept of planned obsolescence, however, planned obsolescence is seen as a "sinister business strategy.' Man-controlled robots such as drones have been developed to carry out tasks such as bomb defusal and space exploration. Universities such as Harvard are working towards the invention of autonomous robots to be used in situations that would aid humans, such as surgery robots, search and rescue robots, and physical therapy robots. 
      Genetics have also been explored, with humans understanding genetic engineering to a certain degree. However, gene editing is widely divisive, and usually involves some degree of eugenics. Some have speculated the future of human engineering to include 'super humans,' humans who have been genetically engineered to be faster, stronger, and more survivable than current humans. Others think that genetic engineering will be used to make humans more resistant or completely immune to some diseases. Some even suggest that 'cloning,' the process of creating an exact copy of a human, may be possible through genetic engineering. 
      Some believe that within the next 10 years, humans will discover nanobot technology, while others believe that we are centuries away from its invention. It is believed by futurists that nanobot technology will allow humans to 'manipulate matter at the molecular and atomic scale.' This discovery could pave the way for many scientific and medical advancements, such as curing new diseases, or inventing new, more efficient technology. It is also believed that nanobots could be injected or otherwise inserted inside the human body, and replace certain parts, keeping humans healthy for an incredibly long amount of time, or combating organ failure to a degree. 
      The 'GNR revolution,' would bring a new age of technology and advancement for humanity like none that has been seen before.  
      See also 
      
      
       Main article: Outline of technology
       
      
       
        
        Technology portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Architectural technology 
        Critique of technology 
        Greatest Engineering Achievements of the 20th Century 
        History of science and technology 
        Knowledge economy 
        Law of the instrument – Golden hammer 
        Lewis Mumford 
        List of emerging technologies 
        List of years in science 
        Niche construction 
        Science and technology in Argentina 
        Technological convergence 
        Technology and society 
        Technology assessment 
        Technology tree 
        -logy 
        Superpower §&nbsp;Possible factors
        
       Theories and concepts in technology  
       
        Appropriate technology 
        Diffusion of innovations 
        Human enhancement 
        Instrumental conception of technology 
        Jacques Ellul 
        Paradigm 
        Philosophy of technology 
        Posthumanism 
        Precautionary principle 
        Singularitarianism 
        Strategy of Technology 
        Techno-progressivism 
        Technocentrism 
        Technocracy 
        Technocriticism 
        Technological determinism 
        Technological evolution 
        Technological nationalism 
        Technological singularity 
        Technology management 
        Technology readiness level 
        Technorealism 
        Transhumanism
        
       Economics of technology  
       
        Energy accounting 
        Nanosocialism 
        Post-scarcity economy 
        Productivity improving technologies (economic history) 
        Technocracy 
        Technocapitalism 
        Technological diffusion 
        Technology acceptance model 
        Technology lifecycle 
        Technology transfer
        
       Technology journalism  
       
        Engadget 
        TechCrunch 
        The Verge 
        Wired (magazine)
        
       Other  
       
        Science tourism 
        STEM fields
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Electricity in economic growth&nbsp;: a report. Washington, D.C: National Academy Press. 1986. doi:10.17226/900. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-309-03677-1. OCLC&nbsp;45734143.  
         ^ 
           Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert (1980). A Greek-English Lexicon (Abridged&nbsp;ed.). United Kingdom: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-910207-5.  
         ^ 
           Crabb, George (1823). Universal Technological Dictionary, or Familiar Explanation of the Terms Used in All Arts and Sciences. London: Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy. p.&nbsp;524 – via Internet Archive.  
         ^ 
           Mannix, Loretta H.; Stratton, Julius Adams (2005). Mind and Hand: The Birth of MIT. Cambridge: MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;190–92. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-19524-9.  
         ^ 
           "Technik Comes to America: Changing Meanings of Technology Before 1930". Technology and Culture. 47.  
         ^ 
           Bain, Read (1937). "Technology and State Government". American Sociological Review. 2 (6): 860–874. doi:10.2307/2084365. JSTOR&nbsp;2084365.  
         ^ 
           MacKenzie, Donald A.; Wajcman, Judy (1999). "Introductory Essay". The Social Shaping of Technology (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Buckingham: Open University Press. p.&nbsp;6. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-335-19913-6. Technology, it is often said, is applied science. Scientists discover facts about reality, and technologists apply these facts to produce useful things.  
         ^ 
           "Technology | Definition of Technology by Merriam-Webster". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on 7 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Franklin, Ursula (1999). The Real World of Technology (revised&nbsp;ed.). Scarborough: House of Anansi. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-88784-891-9.  
         ^ See, for example, 
           "Technology". BBC News. Archived from the original on 7 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Stiegler, Bernard (1998). Technics and Time, 1: The Fault of Epimetheus. Stanford University Press. pp.&nbsp;17, 82. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8047-3041-9. Stiegler has more recently stated that biotechnology can no longer be defined as "organized inorganic matter," given that it is, rather, "the reorganization of the organic." 
           Stiegler, Bernard (2008). L'avenir du passé: Modernité de l'archéologie. La Découverte. p.&nbsp;23. ISBN&nbsp;978-2-7071-5495-8.  
         ^ 
           "Industry, Technology and the Global Marketplace: International Patenting Trends in Two New Technology Areas". Science and Engineering Indicators 2002. National Science Foundation. Archived from the original on 18 August 2015. Retrieved 7 May 2007.  
         ^ 
           Arthur, W. Brian (2009). The Nature of Technology. New York: Free Press. p.&nbsp;28. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4165-4405-0.  
         ^ 
           Borgmann, Albert (2006). "Technology as a Cultural Force: For Alena and Griffin" (fee required). The Canadian Journal of Sociology. 31 (3): 351–60. doi:10.1353/cjs.2006.0050. S2CID&nbsp;144251172. Archived from the original on 13 August 2007. Retrieved 16 February 2007.  
         ^ 
           Macek, Jakub. "Defining Cyberculture". Archived from the original on 3 July 2007. Retrieved 25 May 2007.  
         ^ See, for example, Katie Farris, "The Importance of Art in a Technological World," and Ilya Kaminsky, "Technicians of the Sacred," in: Humanistic Perspectives in a Technological World, ed. Richard Utz and Karen Head (Atlanta: Georgia Institute of Technology, 2021), pp. 36-39, and 79-82, respectively. Electronic access.  
         ^ 
           "Science". Dictionary.com. 2016. Archived from the original on 8 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           A Treatise on Science Technology and Society. Dr. M. R. Sharma. 2020. ISBN&nbsp;978-81-318-0667-8. Retrieved 19 June 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Intute: Science, Engineering and Technology". Intute. Archived from the original on 17 February 2007. Retrieved 17 February 2007.  
         ^ 
           Bush, Vannevar (July 1945). "Science the Endless Frontier". National Science Foundation. Archived from the original on 7 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Wise, George (1985). "Science and Technology". Osiris. 2nd Series. 1: 229–46. doi:10.1086/368647. S2CID&nbsp;144475553.  
         ^ 
           Guston, David H. (2000). Between Politics and Science: Assuring the Integrity and Productivity of Research. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-65318-3.  
         ^ 
           "Mother of man&nbsp;– 3.2 million years ago". BBC. Archived from the original on 12 October 2007. Retrieved 17 May 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Human Evolution". History Channel. Archived from the original on 23 April 2008. Retrieved 17 May 2008.  
         ^ 
           Wade, Nicholas (15 July 2003). "Early Voices: The Leap to Language". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 12 March 2017. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Bower, Bruce (29 October 2010). "Stone Agers Sharpened Skills 55,000 Years Earlier Than Thought". WIRED. Archived from the original on 8 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Crump, Thomas (2001). A Brief History of Science. Constable &amp; Robinson. p.&nbsp;9. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84119-235-2.  
         ^ 
           "Fossil Hominid Sites of Sterkfontein, Swartkrans, Kromdraai, and Environs". UNESCO. Archived from the original on 27 March 2007. Retrieved 10 March 2007.  
         ^ 
           "Stone Age Man". History World. Archived from the original on 10 March 2007. Retrieved 13 February 2007.  
         ^ 
           James, Steven R. (February 1989). "Hominid Use of Fire in the Lower and Middle Pleistocene". Current Anthropology. 30 (1): 1–26. doi:10.1086/203705. JSTOR&nbsp;2743299. S2CID&nbsp;146473957.  
         ^ 
           Stahl, Ann B. (1984). "Hominid dietary selection before fire". Current Anthropology. 25 (2): 151–68. doi:10.1086/203106. JSTOR&nbsp;2742818. S2CID&nbsp;84337150.  
         ^ 
           O'Neil, Dennis. "Evolution of Modern Humans: Archaic Homo sapiens Culture". Palomar College. Archived from the original on 4 April 2007. Retrieved 31 March 2007.  
         ^ 
           Villa, Paola (1983). Terra Amata and the Middle Pleistocene archaeological record of southern France. Berkeley: University of California Press. p.&nbsp;303. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-520-09662-2.  
         ^ 
           Cordaux, Richard; Stoneking, Mark (2003). "South Asia, the Andamanese, and the Genetic Evidence for an 'Early' Human Dispersal out of Africa" (PDF). American Journal of Human Genetics. 72 (6): 1586–90, author reply 1590–93. doi:10.1086/375407. PMC&nbsp;1180321. PMID&nbsp;12817589. Archived (PDF) from the original on 1 October 2009. Retrieved 22 May 2007.  
         ^ 
           Driscoll, Killian (2006). The early prehistory in the west of Ireland: Investigations into the social archaeology of the Mesolithic, west of the Shannon, Ireland. Archived from the original on 4 September 2017. Retrieved 11 July 2017.  
         ^ 
           University of Chicago Press Journals (4 January 2006). "The First Baby Boom: Skeletal Evidence Shows Abrupt Worldwide Increase In Birth Rate During Neolithic Period". ScienceDaily. Archived from the original on 8 November 2016. Retrieved 7 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Sussman, Robert W.; Hall, Roberta L. (April 1972). "Child Transport, Family Size, and Increase in Human Population During the Neolithic". Current Anthropology. 13 (2): 258–67. doi:10.1086/201274. JSTOR&nbsp;2740977. S2CID&nbsp;143449170.  
         ^ 
           Ferraro, Gary P. (2006). Cultural Anthropology: An Applied Perspective. The Thomson Corporation. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-495-03039-3. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 17 May 2008.  
         ^ 
           Patterson, Gordon M. (1992). The ESSENTIALS of Ancient History. Research &amp; Education Association. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-87891-704-4. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 17 May 2008.  
         ^ 
           Cramb, Alan W (1964). "A Short History of Metals". Nature. 203 (4943): 337. Bibcode:1964Natur.203Q.337T. doi:10.1038/203337a0. S2CID&nbsp;382712.  
         ^ 
           Hall, Harry Reginald Holland (1911). "Ceramics"&nbsp;. In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol.&nbsp;05 (11th&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;703–760, see page 708. The art of making a pottery consisting of a siliceous sandy body coated with a vitreous copper glaze seems to have been known unexpectedly early, possibly even as early as the period immediately preceding the Ist Dynasty (4000 B.C.).  
         ^ 
           "The significance of the composition of excavated iron fragments taken from Stratum III at the site of Kaman-Kalehöyük, Turkey". Anatolian Archaeological Studies. Tokyo: Japanese Institute of Anatolian Archaeology. 14.  
         ^ 
           "Ironware piece unearthed from Turkey found to be oldest steel". The Hindu. 26 March 2009. Archived from the original on 29 March 2009. Retrieved 8 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "The oldest representation of a Nile boat". Antiquity. 81.  
         ^ 
           Crawford, Harriet (2013). The Sumerian World. New York City, New York and London, England: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;34–43. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-203-09660-4. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.  
         ^ 
           Potts, D.T. (2012). A Companion to the Archaeology of the Ancient Near East. p.&nbsp;285.  
         ^ 
           Childe, V. Gordon (1928). New Light on the Most Ancient East. p.&nbsp;110.  
         ^ 
           Anthony, David A. (2007). The Horse, the Wheel, and Language: How Bronze-Age Riders from the Eurasian Steppes Shaped the Modern World. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;67. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-05887-0.  
         ^ 
           Gasser, Aleksander (March 2003). "World's Oldest Wheel Found in Slovenia". Republic of Slovenia Government Communication Office. Archived from the original on 26 August 2016. Retrieved 8 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Kramer, Samuel Noah (1963). The Sumerians: Their History, Culture, and Character. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press. p.&nbsp;290. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-45238-8. Archived from the original on 8 August 2014. Retrieved 26 October 2017.  
         ^ a b 
           Moorey, Peter Roger Stuart (1999) . Ancient Mesopotamian Materials and Industries: The Archaeological Evidence. Winona Lake, Indiana: Eisenbrauns. p.&nbsp;146. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-57506-042-2. Archived from the original on 17 October 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2017.  
         ^ a b 
           Lay, M G (1992). Ways of the World. Sydney, Australia: Primavera Press. p.&nbsp;28. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-875368-05-1.  
         ^ a b c d e f g 
           Gregersen, Erik (2012). The Complete History of Wheeled Transportation: From Cars and Trucks to Buses and Bikes. New York City, New York: Britannica Educational Publishing. p.&nbsp;130. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-61530-701-2. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.  
         ^ a b c d e f g 
           Aicher, Peter J. (1995). Guide to the Aqueducts of Ancient Rome. Wauconda, Illinois: Bolchazy-Carducci Publishers, Inc. p.&nbsp;6. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-86516-282-2. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.  
         ^ a b c 
           Eslamian, Saeid (2014). Handbook of Engineering Hydrology: Environmental Hydrology and Water Management. Boca Raton, Florida: CRC Press. pp.&nbsp;171–75. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4665-5250-0. Archived from the original on 10 December 2020. Retrieved 12 November 2020.  
         ^ a b c d e 
           Lechner, Norbert (2012). Plumbing, Electricity, Acoustics: Sustainable Design Methods for Architecture. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. p.&nbsp;106. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-01475-2. Archived from the original on 31 March 2021. Retrieved 12 November 2020.  
         ^ 
           Breslin, Gerry, ed. (2011). "technicism". Collins English Dictionary. HarperCollins. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-00-743786-3.  
         ^ 
           "Philosophical and Ethical Problems of Technicism and Genetic Engineering". Society for Philosophy and Technology. 3.  
         ^ 
           Monsma, Stephen V. (1986). Responsible Technology. Grand Rapids: W.B. Eerdmans Pub. Co. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8028-0175-3.  
         ^ 
           Muehlhauser, Luke (10 November 2015). "Intelligence Explosion FAQ". Machine Intelligence Research Institute. Archived from the original on 7 November 2016. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Kurzweil, Ray (2005). "The Six Epochs". The Singularity is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology. Penguin. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-101-21888-4.  
         ^ 
           Hughes, James. "Democratic Transhumanism 2.0". Changesurfer. Archived from the original on 18 August 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Lovitt, William (1977). "The Question Concerning Technology". The Question Concerning Technology and Other Essays. Harper Torchbooks. pp.&nbsp;3–35. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-613-91314-0. Archived from the original on 14 July 2009. Retrieved 21 November 2007.  
         ^ 
           Heidegger, Martin (1977). "The Question Concerning Technology". The Question Concerning Technology and Other Essays. Translated by Lovitt, W. New York: HarperCollins. pp.&nbsp;25–26.  
         ^ 
           Dreyfus, Hubert; Spinosa, Charles (2006). "Further Reflections on Heidegger, Technology, and the Everyday". In Kompridis, Nikolas (ed.). Philosophical Romanticism. New York: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;265–81.  
         ^ 
           Postman, Neil (1993). Technopoly: The Surrender of Culture to Technology. New York: Vintage.  
         ^ 
           Barney, Darin (2007). One Nation Under Google. Toronto: House of Anansi Press.  
         ^ 
           "Technology's Challenge to Democracy". Parrhesia. 8.  
         ^ Vannini, Phillip, and Jonathan Taggart. "Voluntary simplicity, involuntary complexities, and the pull of remove: The radical ruralities of off-grid lifestyles." Environment and Planning A 45.2 (2013): 295-311.  
         ^ 
           "Jared Bernstein". Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. 13 September 2013. Archived from the original on 12 November 2016. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ a b 
           "It's Not a Skills Gap That's Holding Wages Down: It's the Weak Economy, Among Other Things". The American Prospect. 25.  
         ^ a b 
           Hughes, Thomas P. (2004). Human-Built World: How to Think About Technology and Culture. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp.&nbsp;1–11. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-35933-5.  
         ^ Hughes, Thomas P. (2004) "Introduction: Complex Technology" (1–11) in "Human-Built World: How to Think About Technology and Culture"  
         ^ 
           Morozov, Evgeny (2013). To Save Everything, Click Here: The Folly of Technological Solutionism. New York: PublicAffairs. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-61039-139-9.  
         ^ 
           Madrigal, Alexis C. (13 March 2013). "Toward a Complex, Realistic, and Moral Tech Criticism". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 25 May 2017. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Cohen, Benjamin; Ottinger, Gwen (2011). "Introduction: Environmental Justice and the Transformation of Science and Engineering". In Ottinger, Gwen; Cohen, Benjamin (eds.). Technoscience and Environmental Justice: Expert Cultures in a Grassroots Movement. MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;1–18. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-01579-0.  
         ^ 
           Ottinger, Gwen (2011). "Rupturing Engineering Education: Opportunities for Transforming Expert Identities Through Community-Based Projects". In Ottinger, Gwen; Cohen, Benjamin (eds.). Technoscience and Environmental Justice: Expert Cultures in a Grassroots Movement. MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;229–48. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-01579-0.  
         ^ 
           Sagan, Carl; Druyan, Ann; Leakey, Richard. "Chimpanzee Tool Use". Archived from the original on 21 September 2006. Retrieved 13 February 2007.  
         ^ 
           Rincon, Paul (7 June 2005). "Sponging dolphins learn from mum". BBC News. Archived from the original on 4 December 2016. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Schmid, Randolph E. (4 October 2007). "Crows use tools to find food". NBC News. Archived from the original on 10 March 2017. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Rutz, C.; Bluff, L.A.; Weir, A.A.S.; Kacelnik, A. (4 October 2007). "Video cameras on wild birds". Science. 318 (5851): 765. Bibcode:2007Sci...318..765R. doi:10.1126/science.1146788. PMID&nbsp;17916693. S2CID&nbsp;28785984.  
         ^ 
           Oakley, K. P. (1976). Man the Tool-Maker. Nature. Vol.&nbsp;199. pp.&nbsp;1042–43. Bibcode:1963Natur.199U1042.. doi:10.1038/1991042e0. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-61270-6. S2CID&nbsp;4298952.  
         ^ 
           McGrew, W. C (1992). Chimpanzee Material Culture. Cambridge u.a.: Cambridge Univ. Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-42371-7.  
         ^ 
           Boesch, Christophe; Boesch, Hedwige (1984). "Mental map in wild chimpanzees: An analysis of hammer transports for nut cracking". Primates. 25 (2): 160–70. doi:10.1007/BF02382388. S2CID&nbsp;24073884.  
         ^ 
           Brahic, Catherine (15 January 2009). "Nut-cracking monkeys find the right tool for the job". New Scientist. Archived from the original on 15 November 2016. Retrieved 11 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           Kurzweil, Ray (2005). "GNR: Three Overlapping Revolutions". The Singularity is Near. Penguin. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-101-21888-4.  
         ^ 
           "Voice Assistant Timeline: A Short History of the Voice Revolution". Voicebot.ai. 14 July 2017. Retrieved 10 May 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Ray Kurzweil Predicts Three Technologies Will Define Our Future". Singularity Hub. 19 April 2016. Retrieved 10 May 2021.  
         ^ 
           Hadhazy, Adam. "Here's the truth about the 'planned obsolescence' of tech". www.bbc.com. Retrieved 10 May 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Robotics at Harvard". robotics.harvard.edu. Retrieved 10 May 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Genetics, Nanobots and Superhuman Intelligence in The Singularity". Transcendent Man. 23 May 2013. Retrieved 10 May 2021.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
      
       
        Technologyat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
       
        Ambrose, Stanley H. (2 March 2001). "Paleolithic Technology and Human Evolution" (PDF). Science. 291 (5509): 1748–53. Bibcode:2001Sci...291.1748A. doi:10.1126/science.1059487. PMID&nbsp;11249821. S2CID&nbsp;6170692. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 June 2007. Retrieved 10 March 2007. 
       
        Huesemann, M.H.; Huesemann, J.A. (2011). Technofix: Why Technology Won't Save Us or the Environment. New Society Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-86571-704-6. 
       
        Kremer, Michael (1993). "Population Growth and Technological Change: One Million B.C. to 1990". Quarterly Journal of Economics. 108 (3): 681–716. doi:10.2307/2118405. JSTOR&nbsp;2118405. S2CID&nbsp;139085606. 
       
        Kelly, Kevin (2010). What Technology Wants. New York: Viking Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-670-02215-1. 
       
        Mumford, Lewis (2010). Technics and Civilization. University of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-55027-5. 
       
        Rhodes, Richard (2000). Visions of Technology: A Century of Vital Debate about Machines, Systems, and the Human World. Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN&nbsp;0-684-86311-1. 
       
        Teich, A.H. (2008). Technology and the Future (11th&nbsp;ed.). Wadsworth Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-495-57052-3. 
       
        Tooze, Adam (6 June 2019). "Democracy and Its Discontents". The New York Review of Books. Vol.&nbsp;LXVI, no.&nbsp;10. pp.&nbsp;52–53, 56–57. 
       
        George Wilson (1855), What is technology?: an inaugural lecture delivered in the University of Edinburgh on November 7, 1855 (1st&nbsp;ed.), Edinburgh: Sutherland and Knox, Wikidata&nbsp;Q26221492. 
       
        Wright, R.T. (2008). Technology (5th&nbsp;ed.). Goodheart-Wilcox Company. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59070-718-0.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Technology and related concepts
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Major technologies
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Necessities
                  
                    
                    
                     Agriculture 
                      
                       Domestication 
                       Grafting 
                       Working animal
                       
                     Clothing 
                      
                       Sewing machine
                       
                     Cooking 
                      
                       Beer 
                       Bread 
                       Cheese 
                       Milling 
                       Wine
                       
                     Food storage 
                      
                       Pottery
                       
                     Sanitation 
                      
                       Plumbing 
                       Toilet
                       
                     Tool 
                      
                       Blade 
                       Hammer 
                       Plough 
                       Wedge
                       
                     Weapon 
                      
                       Gun
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Social
                  
                    
                    
                     Accounting 
                     Calculation 
                      
                       Abacus 
                       Calendar
                       
                     Cryptography 
                     Lock and key 
                     Money 
                      
                       Banknote 
                       Coin
                       
                     Musical instrument 
                      
                       Phonograph
                       
                     Toy 
                      
                       Game 
                       Video game
                       
                     Writing 
                      
                       Book 
                       Map 
                       Printing press 
                       Typewriter
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Construction
                  
                    
                    
                     Aqueduct 
                      
                       Canal 
                       Irrigation
                       
                     Arch 
                     Bridge 
                     Building 
                      
                       Fortification 
                       Foundation 
                       Scaffolding 
                       Tower
                       
                     Dam 
                      
                       Caisson
                       
                     Road 
                     Tunnel
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Transport
                  
                    
                    
                     Aircraft 
                      
                       Aerostat 
                       Airplane
                       
                     Compass 
                     Elevator 
                     Horseback riding 
                      
                       Stirrup
                       
                     Jet engine 
                      
                       Rocket
                       
                     Motor vehicle 
                     Railroad 
                      
                       Train
                       
                     Scuba set 
                     Spacecraft 
                      
                       Satellite 
                       Space station 
                       Space suit
                       
                     Watercraft 
                      
                       Sailing 
                       Ship 
                       Submarine
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Manufacturing
                  
                    
                    
                     3D printing 
                     Carpentry 
                     Casting 
                      
                       Injection moulding 
                       Lost-wax casting
                       
                     Mass production 
                      
                       Assembly line 
                       Interchangeable parts 
                       Machine tool
                       
                     Welding
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Simple machine
                  
                    
                    
                     Axle 
                     Bearing 
                      
                       Ball bearing
                       
                     Belt 
                      
                       Chain
                       
                     Lever 
                      
                       Catapult 
                       Crane 
                       Shadoof
                       
                     Linkage 
                      
                       Cam 
                       Clutch 
                       Four-bar linkage 
                       Piston 
                       Rack and pinion
                       
                     Pendulum 
                     Screw 
                      
                       Archimedes' screw 
                       Propeller
                       
                     Spring 
                     Valve 
                     Wheel 
                      
                       Block and tackle 
                       Flywheel 
                       Gear 
                       Potter's wheel 
                       Pulley
                       
                     Wing
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Machinery
                  
                    
                    
                     Agricultural machinery 
                     Appliance 
                      
                       Dishwasher 
                       Washing machine
                       
                     Engine 
                      
                       Electric motor 
                       Internal combustion 
                       Turbine 
                       Waterwheel 
                       Windmill
                       
                     Heavy equipment 
                     Hydraulics 
                      
                       Cylinder 
                       Manifold 
                       Pump
                       
                     Mechanism 
                      
                       Clock 
                       Differential 
                       Epicyclic gearing 
                       Gimbal 
                       Gyroscope 
                       Whippletree
                       
                     MEMS 
                     Pneumatics 
                      
                       Compressor 
                       Jackhammer 
                       Rivet gun 
                       Vacuum pump
                       
                     Robotics 
                      
                       Arm 
                       Leg
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Energy
                  
                    
                    
                     Fire 
                      
                       Charcoal 
                       Oven
                       
                     Energy storage 
                      
                       Battery
                       
                     Geothermal power 
                     Heat exchanger 
                      
                       Heat pump
                       
                     Nuclear power 
                      
                       Nuclear weapon
                       
                     Oil drilling 
                      
                       Fracking
                       
                     Refrigeration 
                      
                       Air conditioning 
                       Refrigerator
                       
                     Solar power 
                      
                       Photovoltaics
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Material
                  
                    
                    
                     Cement 
                      
                       Concrete
                       
                     Ceramic 
                      
                       Brick
                       
                     Chipped stone 
                     Glass 
                     Masonry 
                     Metallurgy 
                      
                       Aluminum 
                       Bronze 
                       Ironworking 
                       Steel
                       
                     Nanomaterials 
                     Paper 
                     Plastic 
                     Rammed earth 
                     Recycling 
                     Rubber 
                      
                       Vulcanization
                       
                     Textile 
                      
                       Loom 
                       Spinning wheel
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Biotechnology
                  
                    
                    
                     Birth control 
                     Blood transfusion 
                     Dentistry 
                     Genetic engineering 
                      
                       CRISPR gene editing 
                       Genetic testing 
                       PCR
                       
                     Hospital 
                     Medical imaging 
                     Medication 
                      
                       Anesthesia 
                       Antibiotic
                       
                     Prosthesis 
                     Surgery 
                     Vaccine
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Chemical
                  
                    
                    
                     Detergent 
                      
                       Soap
                       
                     Dye 
                     Explosive 
                      
                       Dynamite 
                       Fireworks 
                       Gunpowder 
                       TNT
                       
                     Fertilizer 
                      
                       Haber process
                       
                     Laboratory glassware 
                     Pesticide 
                     Pigment 
                     Separation 
                      
                       Chromatography 
                       Distillation 
                       Filtration
                       
                     Spectrometer 
                     Synthesis
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Electromagnetism
                  
                    
                    
                     Electromagnet 
                     Laser 
                      
                       Optical disc
                       
                     Lens 
                      
                       Eyeglasses
                       
                     Magnetic storage 
                     Microwave oven 
                     Mirror 
                     Optical fiber 
                     Optical instrument 
                      
                       Microscope 
                       Telescope
                       
                     Photography 
                      
                       Camera 
                       Motion picture
                       
                     Radar 
                     Telecommunications 
                      
                       Mobile phone 
                       Radio 
                       Telegraph 
                       Telephone 
                       Television
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Electricity
                  
                    
                    
                     Circuit 
                      
                       AC 
                       Circuit breaker 
                       DC 
                       Electrical grid 
                       Fuse 
                       Generator 
                       Switch 
                       Transformer
                       
                     Electric light 
                      
                       Fluorescent 
                       Incandescent 
                       LED 
                       Neon
                       
                     Electronics 
                      
                       Capacitor 
                       Circuit board 
                       Resistor 
                       Inductor 
                       Vacuum tube
                       
                     Lightning rod 
                     Multimeter 
                     Oscilloscope 
                     Semiconductor 
                      
                       Diode 
                       Integrated circuit 
                       Transistor
                       
                     Superconductor
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Computer
                  
                    
                    
                     Artificial intelligence 
                     Hardware 
                      
                       CPU 
                       GPU 
                       Modem 
                       Motherboard 
                       Mouse 
                       RAM 
                       Router 
                       Storage 
                       Touchscreen
                       
                     Networking 
                      
                       Client–server model 
                       Email 
                       Internet 
                       Peer-to-peer 
                       Social media 
                       World Wide Web
                       
                     Programming language 
                     Software 
                      
                       Compiler 
                       Database 
                       GUI 
                       Graphics software 
                       Operating system 
                       Spreadsheet 
                       Web browser 
                       Word processor
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Perspectives
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Criticism
                  
                    
                    
                     Appropriate technology 
                      
                       Low technology
                       
                     Luddite 
                      
                       Neo-Luddism
                       
                     Precautionary principle
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ecotechnology
                  
                    
                    
                     Environmental technology 
                      
                       Clean technology
                       
                     Sustainable design 
                      
                       Sustainable engineering
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Policy &amp; politics
                  
                    
                    
                     Government by algorithm 
                     Intellectual property 
                      
                       Patent 
                       Trade secret
                       
                     Persuasive technology 
                     Science policy 
                     Strategy of Technology 
                     Technology assessment 
                     Technorealism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Progressivism
                  
                    
                    
                     Futures studies 
                      
                       Technology forecasting
                       
                     Technological utopianism 
                      
                       Technocracy movement 
                       Technological singularity 
                       Transhumanism
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Studies
                  
                    
                    
                     Diffusion of innovations 
                      
                       Technology transfer
                       
                     History 
                      
                       Timeline of historic inventions
                       
                     Philosophy 
                      
                       Social construction of technology 
                       Technological determinism
                       
                     Technology acceptance model
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related concepts
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Applied science
                  
                    
                    
                     Agronomy 
                     Architecture 
                     Construction 
                     Engineering 
                     Forensics 
                     Forestry 
                     Logistics 
                     Medicine 
                     Mining 
                     Navigation 
                     Surveying
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Innovation
                  
                    
                    
                     Design 
                     High tech 
                     Invention 
                     Mature technology 
                     Research and development 
                     Technological convergence 
                     Technology lifecycle
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
             
             
               Category 
               Outline 
               Portal
              
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Levels of technological manipulation of matter
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Technology 
             Orders of magnitude (length)
             
           
         
         
          Megascale engineering
          
            
            
             Astroengineering 
             Climate engineering 
             Megastructure 
             Planetary engineering 
             Space elevator 
             Terraforming
             
           
         
         
          Macro-engineering
          
            
            
             Atlantropa 
             Bering Strait crossing 
             Delta Works 
             Great Wall of China 
             Panama Canal 
             Red Sea dam 
             Sahara Sea 
             Space habitat 
             Suez Canal
             
           
         
         
          Microtechnology
          
            
            
             Microelectromechanical systems 
             Micromachinery 
             Photolithography
             
           
         
         
          Nanotechnology
          
            
            
             DNA nanotechnology 
             Implications 
             Molecular nanotechnology 
             Molecular scale electronics 
             Nanobiotechnology 
             Nanofoundry 
             Nanomaterials 
             Nanoreactor 
             Regulation 
             Wearable generator 
             Wet nanotechnology
             
           
         
         
          Picotechnology
          
            
            
             Exotic atom 
             Particle accelerator 
             Rydberg atom 
             Synthetic element
             
           
         
         
          Femtotechnology
          
            
            
             Femtochemistry 
             Hafnium bomb 
             Limits of computation 
             Mode-locking 
             Nuclear isomer 
             Nucleon
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             History of technology 
             Timelines of technology 
             Engineering
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Prehistoric technology
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Prehistory 
              
               Timeline 
               Outline 
               Stone Age 
               Subdivisions 
               New Stone Age
               
             Technology 
              
               history
               
             Glossary
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Tools
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Farming
                  
                    
                    
                     Neolithic Revolution 
                      
                       Founder crops 
                       New World crops
                       
                     Ard&nbsp;/ plough 
                     Celt 
                     Digging stick 
                     Domestication 
                     Goad 
                     Irrigation 
                     Secondary products 
                     Sickle 
                     Terracing
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Food processing
                  
                    
                    
                     Fire 
                     Basket 
                     Cooking 
                      
                       Earth oven
                       
                     Granaries 
                     Grinding slab 
                     Ground stone 
                     Hearth 
                      
                       Aşıklı Höyük 
                       Qesem cave
                       
                     Manos 
                     Metate 
                     Mortar and pestle 
                     Pottery 
                     Quern-stone 
                     Storage pits
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Hunting
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      
                        
                        
                         Arrow 
                         Boomerang 
                          
                           throwing stick
                           
                         Bow and arrow 
                          
                           history
                           
                         Nets 
                         Spear 
                          
                           spear-thrower 
                           baton 
                           harpoon 
                           woomera 
                           Schöningen spears
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Projectile points
                      
                        
                        
                         Arrowhead 
                         Bare Island 
                         Cascade 
                         Clovis 
                         Cresswell 
                         Cumberland 
                         Eden 
                         Folsom 
                         Lamoka 
                         Manis Site 
                         Plano 
                         Transverse arrowhead
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Systems
                      
                        
                        
                         Game drive system 
                          
                           Buffalo jump
                          
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Toolmaking
                  
                    
                    
                     Earliest toolmaking 
                      
                       Oldowan 
                       Acheulean 
                       Mousterian
                       
                     Aurignacian 
                     Clovis culture 
                     Cupstone 
                     Fire hardening 
                     Gravettian culture 
                     Hafting 
                     Hand axe 
                      
                       Grooves
                       
                     Langdale axe industry 
                     Levallois technique 
                     Lithic core 
                     Lithic reduction 
                      
                       analysis 
                       debitage 
                       flake
                       
                     Lithic technology 
                     Magdalenian culture 
                     Metallurgy 
                     Microblade technology 
                     Mining 
                     Prepared-core technique 
                     Solutrean industry 
                     Striking platform 
                     Tool stone 
                     Uniface 
                     Yubetsu technique
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other tools
                  
                    
                    
                     Adze 
                     Awl 
                      
                       bone
                       
                     Axe 
                     Bannerstone 
                     Blade 
                      
                       prismatic
                       
                     Bone tool 
                     Bow drill 
                     Burin 
                     Canoe 
                      
                       Oar 
                       Pesse canoe
                       
                     Chopper 
                      
                       tool
                       
                     Cleaver 
                     Denticulate tool 
                     Fire plough 
                     Fire-saw 
                     Hammerstone 
                     Knife 
                     Microlith 
                     Quern-stone 
                     Racloir 
                     Rope 
                     Scraper 
                      
                       side
                       
                     Stone tool 
                     Tally stick 
                     Weapons 
                     Wheel 
                      
                       illustration
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Architecture
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Ceremonial
                  
                    
                    
                     Kiva 
                     Pyramid 
                     Standing stones 
                      
                       megalith 
                       row 
                       Stonehenge
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Dwellings
                  
                    
                    
                     Neolithic architecture 
                      
                       long house
                       
                     British megalith architecture 
                     Nordic megalith architecture 
                     Burdei 
                     Cave 
                     Cliff dwelling 
                     Dugout 
                     Hut 
                      
                       Quiggly hole
                       
                     Jacal 
                     Longhouse 
                     Mudbrick 
                      
                       Mehrgarh
                       
                     Pit-house 
                     Pueblitos 
                     Pueblo 
                     Rock shelter 
                      
                       Blombos Cave 
                       Abri de la Madeleine 
                       Sibudu Cave
                       
                     Roundhouse 
                     Stilt house 
                      
                       Alp pile dwellings
                       
                     Stone roof 
                     Wattle and daub
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Water management
                  
                    
                    
                     Check dam 
                     Cistern 
                     Flush toilet 
                     Reservoir 
                     Well
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other architecture
                  
                    
                    
                     Archaeological features 
                     Broch 
                     Burnt mound 
                      
                       fulacht fiadh
                       
                     Causewayed enclosure 
                      
                       Tor enclosure
                       
                     Circular enclosure 
                      
                       Goseck
                       
                     Cursus 
                     Henge 
                      
                       Thornborough
                       
                     Megalithic architectural elements 
                     Midden 
                     Oldest surviving buildings 
                     Timber circle 
                     Timber trackway 
                      
                       Sweet Track
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Arts and culture
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Material goods
                  
                    
                    
                     Baskets 
                     Beadwork 
                     Beds 
                     Chalcolithic 
                     Clothing/textiles 
                      
                       timeline
                       
                     Cosmetics 
                     Glue 
                     Hides 
                      
                       shoes 
                       Ötzi
                       
                     Jewelry 
                      
                       amber use
                       
                     Mirrors 
                     Pottery 
                      
                       Cardium 
                       Cord-marked 
                       Grooved ware 
                       Linear 
                       Jōmon 
                       Unstan ware
                       
                     Sewing needle 
                     Weaving 
                     Wine 
                      
                       winery 
                       wine press
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Prehistoric art
                  
                    
                    
                     Art of the Upper Paleolithic 
                     Art of the Middle Paleolithic 
                      
                       Blombos Cave
                       
                     List of Stone Age art 
                     Bird stone 
                     Cairn 
                     Carved stone balls 
                     Cave paintings 
                     Cup and ring mark 
                     Geoglyph 
                     Golden hats 
                     Guardian stones 
                     Gwion Gwion rock paintings 
                      
                       painting 
                       pigment
                       
                     Megalithic art 
                     Petroform 
                     Petroglyph 
                     Petrosomatoglyph 
                     Pictogram 
                     Rock art 
                      
                       Rock cupule 
                       Stone carving
                       
                     Sculpture 
                     Statue menhir 
                     Stone circle 
                      
                       list 
                       British Isles and Brittany
                       
                     Venus figurine
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Burial
                  
                    
                    
                     Burial mounds 
                      
                       Bowl barrow 
                       Round barrow
                       
                     Mound Builders culture 
                      
                       U.S. sites
                       
                     Chamber tomb 
                      
                       Cotswold-Severn
                       
                     Cist 
                      
                       Dartmoor kistvaens
                       
                     Clava cairn 
                     Court tomb 
                     Cremation 
                     Dolmen 
                      
                       Great dolmen
                       
                     Funeral pyre 
                     Gallery grave 
                      
                       transepted 
                       wedge-shaped
                       
                     Grave goods 
                     Jar burial 
                     Long barrow 
                      
                       unchambered 
                       Grønsalen
                       
                     Megalithic tomb 
                     Mummy 
                     Passage grave 
                     Rectangular dolmen 
                     Ring cairn 
                     Simple dolmen 
                     Stone box grave 
                     Tor cairn 
                     Unchambered long cairn
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other cultural
                  
                    
                    
                     Archaeoastronomy 
                      
                       sites 
                       lunar calendar
                       
                     Behavioral modernity 
                     Evolutionary musicology 
                      
                       music archaeology
                       
                     Evolutionary origin of religions 
                      
                       Paleolithic religion 
                       Prehistoric religion 
                       Spiritual drug use
                       
                     Origin of language 
                     Prehistoric counting 
                     Prehistoric medicine 
                      
                       trepanning
                       
                     Prehistoric music 
                      
                       Alligator drum 
                       flutes 
                       Divje Babe flute 
                       gudi
                       
                     Prehistoric warfare 
                     Symbols 
                      
                       symbolism
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            History of technology
           
         
         
          
            
            
             History of technology cultures
             
            
             Prehistoric technology 
             Neolithic 
             Ancient Egypt 
             Mayan 
             Ancient Greek 
             Roman 
             Chinese 
             Indian 
             Byzantine 
             Medieval Islam 
             Medieval Europe 
             Renaissance 
             Ottoman 
             Great Divergence 
             Industrial Revolution 
             Modern
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             History of technology domains
             
            
             History of biotechnology 
             History of communication 
             History of computing hardware 
             History of electrical engineering 
             History of materials science 
             History of measurement 
             History of medicine 
             History of nuclear technology 
             History of transport
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Science and technology studies
           
         
         
          Economics
          
            
            
             Economics of science 
             Economics of scientific knowledge
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History and philosophy of science 
             History of science 
              
               and technology
               
             History of technology
             
           
         
         
          Philosophy
          
            
            
             Anthropocene 
             Antipositivism 
             Empiricism 
             Fuzzy logic 
             Neo-Luddism 
             Philosophy of science 
             Philosophy of social science 
             Philosophy of technology 
             Positivism 
             Postpositivism 
             Religion and science 
             Scientism 
             Social constructivism 
             Social epistemology 
             Transhumanism
             
           
         
         
          Sociology
          
            
            
             Actor–network theory 
             Social 
              
               construction of technology 
               shaping of technology
               
             Sociology of knowledge 
              
               scientific
               
             Sociology of scientific ignorance 
             Sociology of the history of science 
             Sociotechnology 
             Strong programme
             
           
         
         
          Sciencestudies
          
            
            
             Antiscience 
             Bibliometrics 
             Boundary-work 
             Consilience 
             Criticism of science 
             Demarcation problem 
             Double hermeneutic 
             Logology 
             Mapping controversies 
             Metascience 
             Paradigm shift 
              
               black swan events
               
             Pseudoscience 
             Psychology of science 
             Science 
              
               citizen 
               communication 
               education 
               normal 
               Neo-colonial 
               post-normal 
               rhetoric 
               wars
               
             Scientific 
              
               community 
               consensus 
               controversy 
               dissent 
               enterprise 
               literacy 
               method 
               misconduct 
               priority 
               skepticism
               
             Scientocracy 
             Scientometrics 
             Team science 
             Traditional knowledge 
              
               ecological
               
             Unity of science 
             Women in science 
              
               STEM
              
             
           
         
         
          Technologystudies
          
            
            
             Co-production 
             Cyborg anthropology 
             Dematerialization 
             Digital anthropology 
             Digital media use and mental health 
             Early adopter 
             Hype cycle 
             Innovation 
              
               diffusion 
               disruptive 
               linear model 
               system 
               user
               
             Leapfrogging 
             Normalization process theory 
             Reverse salient 
             Skunkworks project 
             Sociotechnical system 
             Technical change 
             Technocracy 
             Technoscience 
              
               feminist
               
             Technological 
              
               change 
               convergence 
               determinism 
               revolution 
               transitions
               
             Technology 
              
               and society 
               criticism of 
               dynamics 
               theories of 
               transfer
               
             Engineering studies 
             Women in engineering 
             Financial technology
             
           
         
         
          Policy
          
            
            
             Academic freedom 
             Digital divide 
             Evidence-based policy 
             Factor 10 
             Funding of science 
             Horizon scanning 
             Science policy 
              
               history of 
               science of
               
             Politicization of science 
             Regulation of science 
             Research ethics 
             Right to science 
             Socio-scientific issues 
             Technology assessment 
             Technology policy 
             Transition management
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portals 
              
               Science 
               History of science 
               Technology
               
              Category 
              
               Associations 
               Journals 
               Scholars
              
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Technology&amp;oldid=1071182600"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Technology
       Technology systems
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Use dmy dates from July 2015
       Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism
       Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
       Pages incorrectly using the Blockquote template
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Technology&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       Ænglisc
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Arpetan
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Aymar aru
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Basa Banyumasan
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       الدارجة
       Deitsch
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Emiliàn e rumagnòl
       Эрзянь
       Español
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Furlan
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Gàidhlig
       Galego
       贛語
       한국어
       Hausa
       Hawaiʻi
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Igbo
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Interlingue
       ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitut
       IsiXhosa
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Къарачай-малкъар
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Kotava
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Ligure
       Limburgs
       Lingua Franca Nova
       La .lojban.
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       Bahasa Melayu
       ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Nouormand
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oromoo
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       Papiamentu
       پښتو
       Patois
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Picard
       Polski
       Português
       Qaraqalpaqsha
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       سرائیکی
       Sardu
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Ślůnski
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taclḥit
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       Tetun
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vahcuengh
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       Volapük
       Võro
       West-Vlams
       Winaray
       吴语
       Xitsonga
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 11 February 2022, at 08:08&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
