
 
  
   
  Enterprise bookmarking - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Enterprise bookmarking 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Enterprise bookmarking is a method for Web 2.0 users to tag, organize, store, and search bookmarks of both web pages on the Internet and data resources stored in a distributed database or fileserver. This is done collectively and collaboratively in a process by which users add tag (metadata) and knowledge tags. 
      In early versions of the software, these tags are applied as non-hierarchical keywords, or terms assigned by a user to a web page, and are collected in tag clouds. Examples of this software are Connectbeam and Dogear. New versions of the software such as Jumper 2.0 and Knowledge Plaza expand tag metadata in the form of knowledge tags that provide additional information about the data and are applied to structured and semi-structured data and are collected in tag profiles.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Differences 
          
          2.1 Versus social bookmarking 
          2.2 Tag management 
           
        3 See also 
        4 Notes and references 
        
       
      History 
      Enterprise bookmarking is derived from Social bookmarking that got its modern start with the launch of the web site del.icio.us in 2003. The first major announcement of an enterprise bookmarking platform was the IBM Dogear project developed in Summer 2006. Version 1.0 of the Dogear software was announced at Lotusphere 2007, and shipped later that year on June 27 as part of IBM Lotus Connections. The second significant commercial release was Cogenz in September 2007. 
      Since these early releases, Enterprise bookmarking platforms have diverged considerably. The most significant new release was the Jumper 2.0 platform with expanded and customizable knowledge tagging fields.  
      Differences 
      
      
       See also: Comparison of enterprise bookmarking platforms
       
      Versus social bookmarking 
      In a social bookmarking system, individuals create personal collections of bookmarks and share their bookmarks with others. These centrally stored collections of Internet resources can be accessed by other users to find useful resources. Often these lists are publicly accessible, so that other people with similar interests can view the links by category or by the tags themselves. Most social bookmarking sites allow users to search for bookmarks which are associated with given "tags", and rank the resources by the number of users which have bookmarked them. 
      Enterprise bookmarking is a method of tagging and linking any information using an expanded set of tags to capture knowledge about data. It collects and indexes these tags in a web-infrastructure knowledge base server residing behind the firewall. Users can share knowledge tags with specified people or groups, shared only inside specific networks, typically within an organization. Enterprise bookmarking is a knowledge management discipline that embraces Enterprise 2.0 methodologies to capture specific knowledge and information that organizations consider proprietary and are not shared on the public Internet.  
      Tag management 
      Enterprise bookmarking tools also differ from social bookmarking tools in the way that they often face an existing taxonomy. Some of these tools have evolved to provide Tag management which is the combination of uphill abilities (e.g. faceted classification, predefined tags, etc.) and downhill gardening abilities (e.g. tag renaming, moving, merging) to better manage the bottom-up folksonomy generated from user tagging.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Enterprise search 
        Enterprise 2.0 
        Social bookmarking 
        Knowledge management 
        Knowledge tagging 
        Web 2.0 
        Collaborative intelligence 
        Comparison of enterprise bookmarking platforms 
        Bookmark manager 
        Collaborative tagging 
        List of social bookmarking websites 
        List of social software 
        Semantic Web 
        Social networking 
        Social software
        
       
      Notes and references 
      
       
        
        ^ Scott Golder and Bernardo A. Huberman, The Structure of Collaborative Tagging Systems, Journal of Information Science, 32(2). 198–208, 2006  
        ^ Martin Halvey and Mark T. Keane, An Assessment of Tag Presentation Techniques, poster presentation at WWW 2007, 2007  
        ^ Sreekumar Sukumaran and Ashish Sureka, Integrating Structured and Unstructured Data Using Text Tagging and Annotation, Business Intelligence Journal, 2009  
        ^ David Millen Jonathan Feinberg and Bernard Kerr, IBM Dogear Archived 2009-12-27 at the Portuguese Web Archive, Queue Vol. 3 No. 9 – November 2005, 2005  
        ^ Stockwell, Thomas (January 28, 2007). "Lotus Announcements at Lotusphere 2007". MC Press Online, LP. Retrieved 4 July 2014.  
        ^ 
          "Cogenz takes enterprise social bookmarking behind the firewall". Webwire. 11 September 2008.  
        ^ 
          "Jumper Networks Press Release Jumper 2.0 Released under the GPL" (PDF). Jumper Networks, Inc. 26 March 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-05-30.  
        ^ David Millen Jonathan Feinberg and Bernard Kerr, Social Bookmarking in the Enterprise, Queue Vol. 3 No. 9 – November 2005, 2005  
        ^ 
          "Jumper 2.0 Tags the Enterprise". John Udell, Web 2.0 News. 17 April 2009. Archived from the original on 27 May 2009. Retrieved 6 May 2009.  
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Enterprise_bookmarking&amp;oldid=1004362868"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Social bookmarking
       World Wide Web
       Collaboration
       Social networking services
       Social information processing
       Online bookmarking services
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template other archives
       Articles contradicting other articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Polski
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 February 2021, at 06:55&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
