
 
  
   
  Efficiency - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Efficiency 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Degree to which a process minimizes waste of resources
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Effectiveness and Efficacy. For other uses, see Efficiency (disambiguation).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section needs additional citations for verification. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Efficiency is the (often measurable) ability to avoid wasting materials, energy, efforts, money, and time in doing something or in producing a desired result. In a more general sense, it is the ability to do things well, successfully, and without waste. "Efficiency is thus not a goal in itself. It is not something we want for its own sake, but rather because it helps us attain more of the things we value". In more mathematical or scientific terms, it signifies the level of performance that uses the least amount of inputs to achieve the highest amount of output. It often specifically comprises the capability of a specific application of effort to produce a specific outcome with a minimum amount or quantity of waste, expense, or unnecessary effort. Efficiency refers to very different inputs and outputs in different fields and industries.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Efficiency and effectiveness 
        2 Mathematical expression 
        3 In science and technology 
          
          3.1 In physics 
          3.2 In economics 
          3.3 In other sciences 
           
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        
       
      Efficiency and effectiveness 
      Efficiency is very often confused with effectiveness. In general, efficiency is a measurable concept, quantitatively determined by the ratio of useful output to total useful input. Effectiveness is the simpler concept of being able to achieve a desired result, which can be expressed quantitatively but does not usually require more complicated mathematics than addition. Efficiency can often be expressed as a percentage of the result that could ideally be expected, for example if no energy were lost due to friction or other causes, in which case 100% of fuel or other input would be used to produce the desired result. In some cases efficiency can be indirectly quantified with a non-percentage value, e.g. specific impulse. 
      A common but confusing way of distinguishing between efficiency and effectiveness is the saying "Efficiency is doing things right, while effectiveness is doing the right things." This saying indirectly emphasizes that the selection of objectives of a production process is just as important as the quality of that process. This saying popular in business however obscures the more common sense of "effectiveness", which would/should produce the following mnemonic: "Efficiency is doing things right; effectiveness is getting things done." This makes it clear that effectiveness, for example large production numbers, can also be achieved through inefficient processes if, for example, workers are willing or used to working longer hours or with greater physical effort than in other companies or countries or if they can be forced to do so. Similarly, a company can achieve effectiveness, for example large production numbers, through inefficient processes if it can afford to use more energy per product, for example if energy prices or labor costs or both are lower than for its competitors.  
      Mathematical expression 
      Efficiency is often measured as the ratio of useful output to total input, which can be expressed with the mathematical formula r=P/C, where P is the amount of useful output ("product") produced per the amount C ("cost") of resources consumed. This may correspond to a percentage if products and consumables are quantified in compatible units, and if consumables are transformed into products via a conservative process. For example, in the analysis of the energy conversion efficiency of heat engines in thermodynamics, the product P may be the amount of useful work output, while the consumable C is the amount of high-temperature heat input. Due to the conservation of energy, P can never be greater than C, and so the efficiency r is never greater than 100% (and in fact must be even less at finite temperatures).  
      In science and technology 
      In physics 
      
       Useful work per quantity of energy, mechanical advantage over ideal mechanical advantage, often denoted by the Greek lowercase letter η (Eta): 
        
         Electrical efficiency 
         Energy conversion efficiency 
         Mechanical efficiency 
         Thermal efficiency, ratio of work done to thermal energy consumed
         
       Efficient energy use, the objective of maximising efficiency 
        
         In thermodynamics: 
          
           Energy conversion efficiency, measure of second law thermodynamic loss
           
         Radiation efficiency, ratio of radiated power to power absorbed at the terminals of an antenna 
         Volumetric efficiency, in internal combustion engine design for the RAF
         
       Lift-to-drag ratio 
       Faraday efficiency, electrolysis 
       Quantum efficiency, a measure of sensitivity of a photosensitive device 
       Grating efficiency, a generalization of the reflectance of a mirror, extended to a diffraction grating
       
      In economics 
      
       Productivity improving technologies 
       Economic efficiency, the extent to which waste or other undesirable features are avoided 
       Market efficiency, the extent to which a given market resembles the ideal of an efficient market 
        
         Pareto efficiency, a state of its being impossible to make one individual better off, without making any other individual worse off 
         Kaldor-Hicks efficiency, a less stringent version of Pareto efficiency 
         Allocative efficiency, the optimal distribution of goods 
         Efficiency wages, paying workers more than the market rate for increased productivity
         
       Business efficiency, revenues relative to expenses, etc. 
       Efficiency Movement, of the Progressive Era (1890–1932), advocated efficiency in the economy, society and government
       
      In other sciences 
      
       In computing: 
        
         Algorithmic efficiency, optimizing the speed and memory requirements of a computer program. 
         Storage efficiency, effectiveness of computer data storage 
         Efficiency factor, in data communications
         
       Efficiency (statistics), a measure of desirability of an estimator 
       Material efficiency, compares material requirements between construction projects or physical processes 
       Administrative efficiency, measuring transparency within public authorities and simplicity of rules and procedures for citizens and businesses
       
        
      
       Photosynthetic efficiency
       
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Efficiency
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Look up efficiency in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       Inefficiency 
       Jevons paradox
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "efficiency". Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Archived from the original on 13 February 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
         ^ 
           "efficiency". Vocabulary.com. Archived from the original on 9 May 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
         ^ 
           "efficiency". Merriam-Webster. Archived from the original on 9 March 2018. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
         ^ 
           "efficient". The American Heritage Dictionary. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. Archived from the original on 14 July 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
         ^ 
           "efficient". Oxford English Dictionary (Online&nbsp;ed.). Oxford University Press. Retrieved 9 May 2018.&nbsp;(Subscription or participating institution membership required.)  
         ^ 
           Stone, Deborah (2012). Policy paradox: the art of political decision making. New York: W. W. Norton &amp; Company Inc.  
         ^ Sickles, R., and Zelenyuk, V. (2019). Measurement of Productivity and Efficiency: Theory and Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781139565981   
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
              
               2
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Efficiency&amp;oldid=1056914739"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Economic efficiency
       Heat transfer
       Engineering concepts
       Waste management
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from December 2013
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Čeština
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Magyar
       Nederlands
       Norsk nynorsk
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 November 2021, at 09:07&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
