
 
  
   
  Artificial intelligence - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Artificial intelligence 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Intelligence demonstrated by machines
       
      
      
       "AI" redirects here. For other uses, see AI (disambiguation) and Artificial intelligence (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Artificial intelligence
        
        
         
          
           
            
           
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Major goals
           
            
            
             Artificial general intelligence 
             Planning 
             Computer vision 
             General game playing 
             Knowledge reasoning 
             Machine learning 
             Natural language processing 
             Robotics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Approaches
           
            
            
             Symbolic 
             Deep learning 
             Bayesian networks 
             Evolutionary algorithms
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophy
           
            
            
             Chinese room 
             Friendly AI 
             Control problem/Takeover 
             Ethics 
             Existential risk 
             Turing test
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            History
           
            
            
             Timeline 
             Progress 
             AI winter
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Technology
           
            
            
             Applications 
             Projects 
             Programming languages
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Glossary
           
            
            
             Glossary
            
           
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
       Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to natural intelligence displayed by animals including humans. Leading AI textbooks define the field as the study of "intelligent agents": any system that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of achieving its goals. Some popular accounts use the term "artificial intelligence" to describe machines that mimic "cognitive" functions that humans associate with the human mind, such as "learning" and "problem solving", however, this definition is rejected by major AI researchers. 
      AI applications include advanced web search engines (e.g., Google), recommendation systems (used by YouTube, Amazon and Netflix), understanding human speech (such as Siri and Alexa), self-driving cars (e.g., Tesla), automated decision-making and competing at the highest level in strategic game systems (such as chess and Go). As machines become increasingly capable, tasks considered to require "intelligence" are often removed from the definition of AI, a phenomenon known as the AI effect. For instance, optical character recognition is frequently excluded from things considered to be AI, having become a routine technology. 
      Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known as an "AI winter"), followed by new approaches, success and renewed funding. AI research has tried and discarded many different approaches since its founding, including simulating the brain, modeling human problem solving, formal logic, large databases of knowledge and imitating animal behavior. In the first decades of the 21st century, highly mathematical statistical machine learning has dominated the field, and this technique has proved highly successful, helping to solve many challenging problems throughout industry and academia. 
      The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language processing, perception, and the ability to move and manipulate objects. General intelligence (the ability to solve an arbitrary problem) is among the field's long-term goals. To solve these problems, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of problem-solving techniques—including search and mathematical optimization, formal logic, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, probability and economics. AI also draws upon computer science, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and many other fields. 
      The field was founded on the assumption that human intelligence "can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it". This raises philosophical arguments about the mind and the ethics of creating artificial beings endowed with human-like intelligence. These issues have been explored by myth, fiction, and philosophy since antiquity. Science fiction and futurology have also suggested that, with its enormous potential and power, AI may become an existential risk to humanity.  
      
      
       
        
        
         Contents
         
         
         1 History 
         2 Goals 
           
           2.1 Reasoning, problem solving 
           2.2 Knowledge representation 
           2.3 Planning 
           2.4 Learning 
           2.5 Natural language processing 
           2.6 Perception 
           2.7 Motion and manipulation 
           2.8 Social intelligence 
           2.9 General intelligence 
            
         3 Tools 
           
           3.1 Search and optimization 
           3.2 Logic 
           3.3 Probabilistic methods for uncertain reasoning 
           3.4 Classifiers and statistical learning methods 
           3.5 Artificial neural networks 
             
             3.5.1 Deep learning 
              
           3.6 Specialized languages and hardware 
            
         4 Applications 
         5 Philosophy 
           
           5.1 Defining artificial intelligence 
             
             5.1.1 Thinking vs. acting: the Turing test 
             5.1.2 Acting humanly vs. acting intelligently: intelligent agents 
              
           5.2 Evaluating approaches to AI 
             
             5.2.1 Symbolic AI and its limits 
             5.2.2 Neat vs. scruffy 
             5.2.3 Soft vs. hard computing 
             5.2.4 Narrow vs. general AI 
              
           5.3 Machine consciousness, sentience and mind 
             
             5.3.1 Consciousness 
             5.3.2 Computationalism and functionalism 
             5.3.3 Robot rights 
              
            
         6 Future 
           
           6.1 Superintelligence 
           6.2 Risks 
             
             6.2.1 Technological unemployment 
             6.2.2 Bad actors and weaponized AI 
             6.2.3 Algorithmic bias 
             6.2.4 Existential risk 
              
           6.3 Ethical machines 
           6.4 Human-Centered AI 
           6.5 Regulation 
            
         7 In fiction 
         8 See also 
         9 Explanatory notes 
         10 Citations 
         11 References 
           
           11.1 AI textbooks 
           11.2 History of AI 
           11.3 Other sources 
            
         12 Further reading 
         13 External links 
         14 Sources 
         
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main articles: History of artificial intelligence and Timeline of artificial intelligence
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Silver didrachma from Crete depicting Talos, an ancient mythical automaton with artificial intelligence
        
       
       
      Artificial beings with intelligence appeared as storytelling devices in antiquity, and have been common in fiction, as in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein or Karel Čapek's R.U.R. These characters and their fates raised many of the same issues now discussed in the ethics of artificial intelligence. 
      The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of mathematical logic led directly to Alan Turing's theory of computation, which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable act of mathematical deduction. This insight that digital computers can simulate any process of formal reasoning is known as the Church–Turing thesis. 
      The Church-Turing thesis, along with concurrent discoveries in neurobiology, information theory and cybernetics, led researchers to consider the possibility of building an electronic brain. The first work that is now generally recognized as AI was McCullouch and Pitts' 1943 formal design for Turing-complete "artificial neurons". 
      When access to digital computers became possible in the mid-1950s, AI research began to explore the possibility that human intelligence could be reduced to step-by-step symbol manipulation, known as Symbolic AI or GOFAI. Approaches based on cybernetics or artificial neural networks were abandoned or pushed into the background. 
      The field of AI research was born at a workshop at Dartmouth College in 1956. The attendees became the founders and leaders of AI research. They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing": computers were learning checkers strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving logical theorems and speaking English. By the middle of the 1960s, research in the U.S. was heavily funded by the Department of Defense and laboratories had been established around the world. 
      Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that symbolic approaches would eventually succeed in creating a machine with artificial general intelligence and considered this the goal of their field. Herbert Simon predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do". Marvin Minsky agreed, writing, "within a generation&nbsp;... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved". 
      They failed to recognize the difficulty of some of the remaining tasks. Progress slowed and in 1974, in response to the criticism of Sir James Lighthill and ongoing pressure from the US Congress to fund more productive projects, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in AI. The next few years would later be called an "AI winter", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult.  
      In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of expert systems, a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's fifth generation computer project inspired the U.S and British governments to restore funding for academic research. However, beginning with the collapse of the Lisp Machine market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
      Many researchers began to doubt that the symbolic approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially perception, robotics, learning and pattern recognition. A number of researchers began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches to specific AI problems. Robotics researchers, such as Rodney Brooks, rejected symbolic AI and focused on the basic engineering problems that would allow robots to move, survive, and learn their environment. Interest in neural networks and "connectionism" was revived by Geoffrey Hinton, David Rumelhart and others in the middle of the 1980s. Soft computing tools were developed in the 80s, such as neural networks, fuzzy systems, Grey system theory, evolutionary computation and many tools drawn from statistics or mathematical optimization. 
      AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by finding specific solutions to specific problems. The narrow focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results, exploit more mathematical methods, and collaborate with other fields (such as statistics, economics and mathematics). By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
      Faster computers, algorithmic improvements, and access to large amounts of data enabled advances in machine learning and perception; data-hungry deep learning methods started to dominate accuracy benchmarks around 2012. According to Bloomberg's Jack Clark, 2015 was a landmark year for artificial intelligence, with the number of software projects that use AI within Google increased from a "sporadic usage" in 2012 to more than 2,700 projects. He attributes this to an increase in affordable neural networks, due to a rise in cloud computing infrastructure and to an increase in research tools and datasets. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had "incorporated AI in some offerings or processes". The amount of research into AI (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
      Numerous academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing the original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Much of current research involves statistical AI, which is overwhelmingly used to solve specific problems, even highly successful techniques such as deep learning. This concern has led to the subfield artificial general intelligence (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s.  
      Goals 
      The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken down into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention.  
      Reasoning, problem solving 
      Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical deductions. By the late 1980s and 1990s, AI research had developed methods for dealing with uncertain or incomplete information, employing concepts from probability and economics. 
      Many of these algorithms proved to be insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experienced a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger. Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An ontology represents knowledge as a set of concepts within a domain and the relationships between those concepts.
        
       
       
      Knowledge representation 
      
      
       Main articles: Knowledge representation, Commonsense knowledge, Description logic, and Ontology
       
      Knowledge representation and knowledge engineering allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real world facts. 
      A representation of "what exists" is an ontology: the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties formally described so that software agents can interpret them. The most general ontologies are called upper ontologies, which attempt to provide a foundation for all other knowledge and act as mediators between domain ontologies that cover specific knowledge about a particular knowledge domain (field of interest or area of concern). A truly intelligent program would also need access to commonsense knowledge; the set of facts that an average person knows. The semantics of an ontology is typically represented in a description logic, such as the Web Ontology Language. 
      AI research has developed tools to represent specific domains, such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects; situations, events, states and time; causes and effects; knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);. default reasoning (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  as well as other domains. Among the most difficult problems in AI are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the number of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous); and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally). 
      Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval, scene interpretation, clinical decision support, knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large databases), and other areas.  
      Planning 
      
      
       Main article: Automated planning and scheduling
       
      An intelligent agent that can plan makes a representation of the state of the world, makes predictions about how their actions will change it and makes choices that maximize the utility (or "value") of the available choices. In classical planning problems, the agent can assume that it is the only system acting in the world, allowing the agent to be certain of the consequences of its actions. However, if the agent is not the only actor, then it requires that the agent reason under uncertainty, and continuously re-assess its environment and adapt. Multi-agent planning uses the cooperation and competition of many agents to achieve a given goal. Emergent behavior such as this is used by evolutionary algorithms and swarm intelligence.  
      Learning 
      
      
       Main article: Machine learning
       
      Machine learning (ML), a fundamental concept of AI research since the field's inception, is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. 
      Unsupervised learning finds patterns in a stream of input. Supervised learning requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties: classification and numerical regression. Classification is used to determine what category something belongs in—the program sees a number of examples of things from several categories and will learn to classify new inputs. Regression is the attempt to produce a function that describes the relationship between inputs and outputs and predicts how the outputs should change as the inputs change. Both classifiers and regression learners can be viewed as "function approximators" trying to learn an unknown (possibly implicit) function; for example, a spam classifier can be viewed as learning a function that maps from the text of an email to one of two categories, "spam" or "not spam". In reinforcement learning the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent classifies its responses to form a strategy for operating in its problem space. Transfer learning is when knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem. 
      Computational learning theory can assess learners by computational complexity, by sample complexity (how much data is required), or by other notions of optimization.  
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A parse tree represents the syntactic structure of a sentence according to some formal grammar.
        
       
       
      Natural language processing 
      
      
       Main article: Natural language processing
       
      Natural language processing (NLP) allows machines to read and understand human language. A sufficiently powerful natural language processing system would enable natural-language user interfaces and the acquisition of knowledge directly from human-written sources, such as newswire texts. Some straightforward applications of NLP include information retrieval, question answering and machine translation.  
      Symbolic AI used formal syntax to translate the deep structure of sentences into logic. This failed to produce useful applications, due to the intractability of logic and the breadth of commonsense knowledge. Modern statistical techniques include co-occurrence frequencies (how often one word appears near another), "Keyword spotting" (searching for a particular word to retrieve information), transformer-based deep learning (which finds patterns in text), and others. They have achieved acceptable accuracy at the page or paragraph level, and, by 2019, could generate coherent text.
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Feature detection (pictured: edge detection) helps AI compose informative abstract structures out of raw data.
        
       
       
      Perception 
      
      
       Main articles: Machine perception, Computer vision, and Speech recognition
       
      Machine perception is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, and active lidar, sonar, radar, and tactile sensors) to deduce aspects of the world. Applications include speech recognition, facial recognition, and object recognition. 
       Computer vision is the ability to analyze visual input.
       
      Motion and manipulation 
      
      
       Main article: Robotics
       
      AI is heavily used in robotics. Localization is how a robot knows its location and maps its environment. When given a small, static, and visible environment, this is easy; however, dynamic environments, such as (in endoscopy) the interior of a patient's breathing body, pose a greater challenge.  
      Motion planning is the process of breaking down a movement task into "primitives" such as individual joint movements. Such movement often involves compliant motion, a process where movement requires maintaining physical contact with an object. Robots can learn from experience how to move efficiently despite the presence of friction and gear slippage.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Kismet, a robot with rudimentary social skills
        
       
       
      Social intelligence 
      
      
       Main article: Affective computing
       
      Affective computing is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems which recognize, interpret, process, or simulate human feeling, emotion and mood. For example, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate human–computer interaction. However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of how intelligent existing computer agents actually are. 
       Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual sentiment analysis and, more recently, multimodal sentiment analysis), wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject.
       
      General intelligence 
      
      
       Main article: Artificial general intelligence
       
      A machine with general intelligence can solve a wide variety of problems with a breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. There are several competing ideas about how to develop artificial general intelligence. Hans Moravec and Marvin Minsky argue that work in different individual domains can be incorporated into an advanced multi-agent system or cognitive architecture with general intelligence. Pedro Domingos hopes that there is a conceptually straightforward, but mathematically difficult, "master algorithm" that could lead to AGI. Others believe that anthropomorphic features like an artificial brain or simulated child development will someday reach a critical point where general intelligence emerges.  
      Tools 
      Search and optimization 
      
      
       Main articles: Search algorithm, Mathematical optimization, and Evolutionary computation
       
      Many problems in AI can be solved theoretically by intelligently searching through many possible solutions: Reasoning can be reduced to performing a search. For example, logical proof can be viewed as searching for a path that leads from premises to conclusions, where each step is the application of an inference rule. Planning algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called means-ends analysis. Robotics algorithms for moving limbs and grasping objects use local searches in configuration space. 
      Simple exhaustive searches are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the search space (the number of places to search) quickly grows to astronomical numbers. The result is a search that is too slow or never completes. The solution, for many problems, is to use "heuristics" or "rules of thumb" that prioritize choices in favor of those more likely to reach a goal and to do so in a shorter number of steps. In some search methodologies heuristics can also serve to eliminate some choices unlikely to lead to a goal (called "pruning the search tree"). Heuristics supply the program with a "best guess" for the path on which the solution lies. Heuristics limit the search for solutions into a smaller sample size.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A particle swarm seeking the global minimum
        
       
       
      A very different kind of search came to prominence in the 1990s, based on the mathematical theory of optimization. For many problems, it is possible to begin the search with some form of a guess and then refine the guess incrementally until no more refinements can be made. These algorithms can be visualized as blind hill climbing: we begin the search at a random point on the landscape, and then, by jumps or steps, we keep moving our guess uphill, until we reach the top. Other optimization algorithms are simulated annealing, beam search and random optimization. Evolutionary computation uses a form of optimization search. For example, they may begin with a population of organisms (the guesses) and then allow them to mutate and recombine, selecting only the fittest to survive each generation (refining the guesses). Classic evolutionary algorithms include genetic algorithms, gene expression programming, and genetic programming. Alternatively, distributed search processes can coordinate via swarm intelligence algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are particle swarm optimization (inspired by bird flocking) and ant colony optimization (inspired by ant trails).  
      Logic 
      
      
       Main articles: Logic programming and Automated reasoning
       
      Logic is used for knowledge representation and problem solving, but it can be applied to other problems as well. For example, the satplan algorithm uses logic for planning and inductive logic programming is a method for learning. 
      Several different forms of logic are used in AI research. Propositional logic involves truth functions such as "or" and "not". First-order logic adds quantifiers and predicates, and can express facts about objects, their properties, and their relations with each other. Fuzzy logic assigns a "degree of truth" (between 0 and 1) to vague statements such as "Alice is old" (or rich, or tall, or hungry), that are too linguistically imprecise to be completely true or false. Default logics, non-monotonic logics and circumscription are forms of logic designed to help with default reasoning and the qualification problem. Several extensions of logic have been designed to handle specific domains of knowledge, such as: description logics; situation calculus, event calculus and fluent calculus (for representing events and time); causal calculus; belief calculus (belief revision); and modal logics. Logics to model contradictory or inconsistent statements arising in multi-agent systems have also been designed, such as paraconsistent logics.  
      Probabilistic methods for uncertain reasoning 
      
      
       Main articles: Bayesian network, Hidden Markov model, Kalman filter, Particle filter, Decision theory, and Utility theory
       
      
       
         
        
         Expectation-maximization clustering of Old Faithful eruption data starts from a random guess but then successfully converges on an accurate clustering of the two physically distinct modes of eruption.
        
       
       
      Many problems in AI (in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of powerful tools to solve these problems using methods from probability theory and economics. Bayesian networks are a very general tool that can be used for various problems: reasoning (using the Bayesian inference algorithm), learning (using the expectation-maximization algorithm), planning (using decision networks) and perception (using dynamic Bayesian networks). Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping perception systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g., hidden Markov models or Kalman filters). 
      A key concept from the science of economics is "utility": a measure of how valuable something is to an intelligent agent. Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using decision theory, decision analysis, and information value theory. These tools include models such as Markov decision processes, dynamic decision networks, game theory and mechanism design.  
      Classifiers and statistical learning methods 
      
      
       Main articles: Classifier (mathematics), Statistical classification, and Machine learning
       
      The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers ("if shiny then diamond") and controllers ("if diamond then pick up"). Controllers do, however, also classify conditions before inferring actions, and therefore classification forms a central part of many AI systems. Classifiers are functions that use pattern matching to determine a closest match. They can be tuned according to examples, making them very attractive for use in AI. These examples are known as observations or patterns. In supervised learning, each pattern belongs to a certain predefined class. A class is a decision that has to be made. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a data set. When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
      A classifier can be trained in various ways; there are many statistical and machine learning approaches. The decision tree is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm. K-nearest neighbor algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s. Kernel methods such as the support vector machine (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. The naive Bayes classifier is reportedly the "most widely used learner" at Google, due in part to its scalability. Neural networks are also used for classification. 
      Classifier performance depends greatly on the characteristics of the data to be classified, such as the dataset size, distribution of samples across classes, the dimensionality, and the level of noise. Model-based classifiers perform well if the assumed model is an extremely good fit for the actual data. Otherwise, if no matching model is available, and if accuracy (rather than speed or scalability) is the sole concern, conventional wisdom is that discriminative classifiers (especially SVM) tend to be more accurate than model-based classifiers such as "naive Bayes" on most practical data sets.  
      Artificial neural networks 
      
      
       Main articles: Artificial neural network and Connectionism
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A neural network is an interconnected group of nodes, akin to the vast network of neurons in the human brain.
        
       
       
      Neural networks were inspired by the architecture of neurons in the human brain. A simple "neuron" N accepts input from other neurons, each of which, when activated (or "fired"), casts a weighted "vote" for or against whether neuron N should itself activate. Learning requires an algorithm to adjust these weights based on the training data; one simple algorithm (dubbed "fire together, wire together") is to increase the weight between two connected neurons when the activation of one triggers the successful activation of another. Neurons have a continuous spectrum of activation; in addition, neurons can process inputs in a nonlinear way rather than weighing straightforward votes. 
      Modern neural networks model complex relationships between inputs and outputs or and find patterns in data. They can learn continuous functions and even digital logical operations. Neural networks can be viewed a type of mathematical optimization — they perform a gradient descent on a multi-dimensional topology that was created by training the network. The most common training technique is the backpropagation algorithm. Other learning techniques for neural networks are Hebbian learning ("fire together, wire together"), GMDH or competitive learning. 
      The main categories of networks are acyclic or feedforward neural networks (where the signal passes in only one direction) and recurrent neural networks (which allow feedback and short-term memories of previous input events). Among the most popular feedforward networks are perceptrons, multi-layer perceptrons and radial basis networks.  
       
      Deep learning 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Representing Images on Multiple Layers of Abstraction in Deep Learning
        
       
       
      Deep learning uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in image processing, lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. Deep learning has drastically improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including computer vision, speech recognition, image classification and others. 
      Deep learning often uses convolutional neural networks for many or all of its layers. In a convolutional layer, each neuron receives input from only a restricted area of the previous layer called the neuron's receptive field. This can substantially reduce the number of weighted connections between neurons, and creates a hierarchy similar to the organization of the animal visual cortex. 
      In a recurrent neural network the signal will propagate through a layer more than once; thus, an RNN is an example of deep learning. RNNs can be trained by gradient descent, however long-term gradients which are back-propagated can "vanish" (that is, they can tend to zero) or "explode" (that is, they can tend to infinity), known as the vanishing gradient problem. The long short term memory (LSTM) technique can prevent this in most cases.  
      Specialized languages and hardware 
      
      
       Main articles: Programming languages for artificial intelligence and Hardware for artificial intelligence
       
      Specialized languages for artificial intelligence have been developed, such as Lisp, Prolog, TensorFlow and many others. Hardware developed for AI includes AI accelerators and neuromorphic computing.  
      Applications 
      
      
       Main article: Applications of artificial intelligence
      
      
      
       See also: Embodied cognition
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         For this project the AI had to learn the typical patterns in the colors and brushstrokes of Renaissance painter Raphael. The portrait shows the face of the actress Ornella Muti, "painted" by AI in the style of Raphael.
        
       
       
      AI is relevant to any intellectual task. Modern artificial intelligence techniques are pervasive and are too numerous to list here. Frequently, when a technique reaches mainstream use, it is no longer considered artificial intelligence; this phenomenon is described as the AI effect. 
      In the 2010s, AI applications were at the heart of the most commercially successful areas of computing, and have become a ubiquitous feature of daily life. AI is used in search engines (such as Google Search), targeting online advertisements, recommendation systems (offered by Netflix, YouTube or Amazon), driving internet traffic, targeted advertising (AdSense, Facebook), virtual assistants (such as Siri or Alexa), autonomous vehicles (including drones and self-driving cars), automatic language translation (Microsoft Translator, Google Translate), facial recognition (Apple's Face ID or Microsoft's DeepFace), image labeling (used by Facebook, Apple's iPhoto and TikTok) and spam filtering. 
      There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve problems for specific industries or institutions. A few examples are: energy storage, deepfakes, medical diagnosis, military logistics, or supply chain management. 
      Game playing has been a test of AI's strength since the 1950s. Deep Blue became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion, Garry Kasparov, on 11 May 1997. In 2011, in a Jeopardy! quiz show exhibition match, IBM's question answering system, Watson, defeated the two greatest Jeopardy! champions, Brad Rutter and Ken Jennings, by a significant margin. In March 2016, AlphaGo won 4 out of 5 games of Go in a match with Go champion Lee Sedol, becoming the first computer Go-playing system to beat a professional Go player without handicaps. Other programs handle imperfect-information games; such as for poker at a superhuman level, Pluribus and Cepheus. DeepMind in the 2010s developed a "generalized artificial intelligence" that could learn many diverse Atari games on its own. 
      By 2020, Natural Language Processing systems such as the enormous GPT-3 (then by far the largest artificial neural network) were matching human performance on pre-existing benchmarks, albeit without the system attaining commonsense understanding of the contents of the benchmarks. DeepMind's AlphaFold 2 (2020) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D structure of a protein. Other applications predict the result of judicial decisions, create art (such as poetry or painting) and prove mathematical theorems.  
      Philosophy 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of artificial intelligence
       
      Defining artificial intelligence 
      Thinking vs. acting: the Turing test 
      
      
       Main articles: Turing test, Dartmouth Workshop, and Synthetic intelligence
       
      Alan Turing wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?" He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour". The only thing visible is the behavior of the machine, so it does not matter if the machine is conscious, or has a mind, or whether the intelligence is merely a "simulation" and not "the real thing". He noted that we also don't know these things about other people, but that we extend a "polite convention" that they are actually "thinking". This idea forms the basis of the Turing test.  
      Acting humanly vs. acting intelligently: intelligent agents 
      
      
       Main article: Intelligent agents
       
      AI founder John McCarthy said: "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". Russell and Norvig agree and criticize the Turing test. They wrote: "Aeronautical engineering texts do not define the goal of their field as 'making machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool other pigeons.'" Other researchers and analysts disagree and have argued that AI should simulate natural intelligence by studying psychology or neurobiology. 
      The intelligent agent paradigm defines intelligent behavior in general, without reference to human beings. An intelligent agent is a system that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chances of success. Any system that has goal-directed behavior can be analyzed as an intelligent agent: something as simple as a thermostat, as complex as a human being, as well as large systems such as firms, biomes or nations. The intelligent agent paradigm became widely accepted during the 1990s, and currently serves as the definition of the field. 
      The paradigm has other advantages for AI. It provides a reliable and scientific way to test programs; researchers can directly compare or even combine different approaches to isolated problems, by asking which agent is best at maximizing a given "goal function". It also gives them a common language to communicate with other fields — such as mathematical optimization (which is defined in terms of "goals") or economics (which uses the same definition of a "rational agent").  
      Evaluating approaches to AI 
      No established unifying theory or paradigm has guided AI research for most of its history. The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly sub-symbolic, neat, soft and narrow (see below). Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.  
      Symbolic AI and its limits 
      
      
       Main articles: Symbolic AI, Physical symbol systems hypothesis, Moravec's paradox, and Dreyfus' critique of artificial intelligence
       
      Symbolic AI (or "GOFAI") simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the physical symbol systems hypothesis: "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
      However, the symbolic approach failed dismally on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning. Moravec's paradox is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult. Philosopher Hubert Dreyfus had argued since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge. Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually AI research came to agree. 
      The issue is not resolved: sub-symbolic reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as algorithmic bias. Critics such Noam Chomsky argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence, in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from explainable AI: it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision.  
      Neat vs. scruffy 
      
      
       Main article: Neats and scruffies
       
      "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior be described using simple, elegant principles (such as logic, optimization, or neural networks). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. This issue was actively discussed in the 70s and 80s, but in the 1990s mathematical methods and solid scientific standards became the norm, a transition that Russell and Norvig termed "the victory of the neats".  
      Soft vs. hard computing 
      
      
       Main article: Soft computing
       
      Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is intractable for many important problems. Soft computing is a set of techniques, including genetic algorithms, fuzzy logic and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 80s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.  
      Narrow vs. general AI 
      
      
       Main article: Artificial general intelligence
       
      AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and superintelligence (general AI) directly, or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focussing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.  
      Machine consciousness, sentience and mind 
      
      
       Main articles: Philosophy of artificial intelligence and Artificial Consciousness
       
      The philosophy of mind does not know whether a machine can have a mind, consciousness and mental states, in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant, because it does not effect the goals of the field. Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig observe that most AI researchers "don't care about the  — as long as the program works, they don't care whether you call it a simulation of intelligence or real intelligence." However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in artificial intelligence in fiction.  
      Consciousness 
      
      
       Main articles: Hard problem of consciousness and Theory of mind
       
      David Chalmers identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness. The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this feels or why it should feel like anything at all. Human information processing is easy to explain, however human subjective experience is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to know what red looks like.  
      Computationalism and functionalism 
      
      
       Main articles: Computationalism, Functionalism (philosophy of mind), and Chinese room
       
      Computationalism is the position in the philosophy of mind that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the mind-body problem. This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers Jerry Fodor and Hilary Putnam. 
      Philosopher John Searle characterized this position as "strong AI": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds." Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind.  
      Robot rights 
      
      
       Main article: Robot rights
       
      If a machine has a mind and subjective experience, then it may also have sentience (the ability to feel), and if so, then it could also suffer, and thus it would be entitled to certain rights. Any hypothetical robot rights would lie on a spectrum with animal rights and human rights. This issue has been considered in fiction for centuries, and is now being considered by, for example, California's Institute for the Future, however critics argue that the discussion is premature.  
      Future 
      Superintelligence 
      
      
       Main articles: Superintelligence, Technological singularity, and Transhumanism
       
      A superintelligence, hyperintelligence, or superhuman intelligence, is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. Superintelligence may also refer to the form or degree of intelligence possessed by such an agent. 
      If research into artificial general intelligence produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to reprogram and improve itself. The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to recursive self-improvement. Its intelligence would increase exponentially in an intelligence explosion and could dramatically surpass humans. Science fiction writer Vernor Vinge named this scenario the "singularity". Because it is difficult or impossible to know the limits of intelligence or the capabilities of superintelligent machines, the technological singularity is an occurrence beyond which events are unpredictable or even unfathomable. 
      Robot designer Hans Moravec, cyberneticist Kevin Warwick, and inventor Ray Kurzweil have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into cyborgs that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in Aldous Huxley and Robert Ettinger. 
      Edward Fredkin argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by Samuel Butler's "Darwin among the Machines" as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by George Dyson in his book of the same name in 1998.  
      Risks 
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
         Lecture by Fillipo Santoni de Sio (Delft University of Technology) on the risks of artificial intelligence and how we can keep artificial intelligence under control
        
       
       
      Technological unemployment 
      
      
       Main articles: Workplace impact of artificial intelligence and Technological unemployment
       
      In the past technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI. A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term unemployment, but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit, if productivity gains are redistributed. Subjective estimates of the risk vary widely; for example, Michael Osborne and Carl Benedikt Frey estimate 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classifies only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk". 
      Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence; The Economist states that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously". Jobs at extreme risk range from paralegals to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy.  
      Bad actors and weaponized AI 
      
      
       Main articles: lethal autonomous weapon and artificial intelligence arms race
       
      AI provides a number of tools that are particularly useful for authoritarian governments: smart spyware, face recognition and voice recognition allow widespread surveillance; such surveillance allows machine learning to classify potential enemies of the state and can prevent them from hiding; recommendation systems can precisely target propaganda and misinformation for maximum effect; deepfakes aid in producing misinformation; advanced AI can make centralized decision making more competitive with liberal and decentralized systems such as markets. 
      Terrorists, criminals and rogue states may use other forms of weaponized AI such as advanced digital warfare and lethal autonomous weapons. By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots.  
      Algorithmic bias 
      
      
       Main article: algorithmic bias
       
      AI programs can become biased after learning from real world data. It is not typically introduced by the system designers, but is learned by the program, and thus the programmers are often unaware that the bias exists. Bias can be inadvertently introduced by the way training data is selected. It can also emerge from correlations: AI is used to classify individuals into groups and then make predictions assuming that the individual will resemble other members of the group. In some cases, this assumption may be unfair. An example of this is COMPAS, a commercial program widely used by U.S. courts to assess the likelihood of a defendant becoming a recidivist. ProPublica claims that the COMPAS-assigned recidivism risk level of black defendants is far more likely to be an overestimate than that of white defendants, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Other examples where algorithmic bias can lead to unfair outcomes are when AI is used for credit rating or hiring.  
      Existential risk 
      
      
       Main articles: Existential risk from artificial general intelligence and Superintelligence
       
      Superintelligent AI may be able to improve itself to the point that humans could not control it. This could, as physicist Stephen Hawking puts it, "spell the end of the human race". Philosopher Nick Bostrom argues that sufficiently intelligent AI, if it chooses actions based on achieving some goal, will exhibit convergent behavior such as acquiring resources or protecting itself from being shut down. If this AI's goals do not fully reflect humanity's, it might need to harm humanity to acquire more resources or prevent itself from being shut down, ultimately to better achieve its goal. He concludes that AI poses a risk to mankind, however humble or "friendly" its stated goals might be. Political scientist Charles T. Rubin argues that "any sufficiently advanced benevolence may be indistinguishable from malevolence." Humans should not assume machines or robots would treat us favorably because there is no a priori reason to believe that they would share our system of morality. 
      The opinion of experts and industry insiders is mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superhumanly-capable AI. Stephen Hawking, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, history professor Yuval Noah Harari, and SpaceX founder Elon Musk have all expressed serious misgivings about the future of AI. Prominent tech titans including Peter Thiel (Amazon Web Services) and Musk have committed more than $1&nbsp;billion to nonprofit companies that champion responsible AI development, such as OpenAI and the Future of Life Institute. Mark Zuckerberg (CEO, Facebook) has said that artificial intelligence is helpful in its current form and will continue to assist humans. Other experts argue is that the risks are far enough in the future to not be worth researching, or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine. Rodney Brooks, in particular, has said that "malevolent" AI is still centuries away.  
      Ethical machines 
      
      
       Main articles: Machine ethics, Friendly AI, Artificial moral agents, and Human Compatible
       
      Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans. Eliezer Yudkowsky, who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
      Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. Machine ethics is also called machine morality, computational ethics or computational morality, and was founded at an AAAI symposium in 2005. 
      Others approaches include Wendell Wallach's "artificial moral agents" and Stuart J. Russell's three principles for developing provably beneficial machines.  
      Human-Centered AI 
      Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HCAI) is a set of processes for designing applications that are reliable, safe, and trustworthy. These extend the processes of user experience design such as user observation and interviews. Further processes include discussions with stakeholders, usability testing, iterative refinement and continuing evaluation in use of systems that employ AI and machine learning algorithms. Human-Centered AI manifests in products that are designed to amplify, augment, empower and enhance human performance. These products ensure high levels of human control and high levels of automation. 
      HCAI research includes governance structures that include safety cultures within organizations and independent oversight by experienced groups that review plans for new projects, continuous evaluation of usage, and retrospective analysis of failures. 
      The rise of HCAI is visible in topics such as explainable AI, transparency, audit trail, fairness, trustworthiness, and controllable systems.  
      Regulation 
      
      
       Main articles: Regulation of artificial intelligence, Regulation of algorithms, and AI control problem
       
      The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms. The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally. Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI. Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, USA and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia. The Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology. Henry Kissinger, Eric Schmidt, and Daniel Huttenlocher published an joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  
      In fiction 
      
      
       Main article: Artificial intelligence in fiction
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The word "robot" itself was coined by Karel Čapek in his 1921 play R.U.R., the title standing for "Rossum's Universal Robots"
        
       
       
      Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity, and have been a persistent theme in science fiction. 
      A common trope in these works began with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as Arthur C. Clarke's and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (both 1968), with HAL 9000, the murderous computer in charge of the Discovery One spaceship, as well as The Terminator (1984) and The Matrix (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from The Day the Earth Stood Still (1951) and Bishop from Aliens (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
      Isaac Asimov introduced the Three Laws of Robotics in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics; while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
      Transhumanism (the merging of humans and machines) is explored in the manga Ghost in the Shell and the science-fiction series Dune. 
      Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have the ability to feel, and thus to suffer. This appears in Karel Čapek's R.U.R., the films A.I. Artificial Intelligence and Ex Machina, as well as the novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, by Philip K. Dick. Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Computer programming portal
       
       
      
       
       
        A.I. Rising 
        AI control problem 
        Artificial intelligence arms race 
        Artificial general intelligence 
        Behavior selection algorithm 
        Business process automation 
        Case-based reasoning 
        Citizen Science 
        Emergent algorithm 
        Female gendering of AI technologies 
        Glossary of artificial intelligence 
        Robotic process automation 
        Synthetic intelligence 
        Universal basic income 
        Weak AI
        
       
      Explanatory notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Definition of AI as the study of intelligent agents, drawn from the leading AI textbooks. 
           
            Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, p. 1), which provides the version that is used in this article. These authors use the term "computational intelligence" as a synonym for artificial intelligence. 
            Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;55) (who prefer the term "rational agent") and write "The whole-agent view is now widely accepted in the field". 
            Nilsson (1998) 
            Legg &amp; Hutter (2007)
             
         ^ Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig characterize this definition as "thinking humanly" and reject it in favor of "acting rationally".  
         ^ a b This list of intelligent traits is based on the topics covered by the major AI textbooks, including: Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004), Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998) and Nilsson (1998)  
         ^ This statement comes from the proposal for the Dartmouth workshop of 1956, which reads: "Every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it."  
         ^  Daniel Crevier wrote "the conference is generally recognized as the official birthdate of the new science." Russell and Norvifg call the conference "the birth of artificial intelligence."  
         ^  Russell and Norvig wrote "for the next 20 years the field would be dominated by these people and their students."  
         ^  Russell and Norvig wrote "it was astonishing whenever a computer did anything kind of smartish".  
         ^  The programs described are Arthur Samuel's checkers program for the IBM 701, Daniel Bobrow's STUDENT, Newell and Simon's Logic Theorist and Terry Winograd's SHRDLU.  
         ^  Embodied approaches to AI were championed by Hans Moravec and Rodney Brooks and went by many names: Nouvelle AI, Developmental robotics, situated AI, behavior-based AI as well as others. A similar movement in cognitive science was the embodied mind thesis.  
         ^  Clark wrote: "After a half-decade of quiet breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, 2015 has been a landmark year. Computers are smarter and learning faster than ever."  
         ^ Alan Turing discussed the centrality of learning as early as 1950, in his classic paper "Computing Machinery and Intelligence". In 1956, at the original Dartmouth AI summer conference, Ray Solomonoff wrote a report on unsupervised probabilistic machine learning: "An Inductive Inference Machine".  
         ^ This is a form of Tom Mitchell's widely quoted definition of machine learning: "A computer program is set to learn from an experience E with respect to some task T and some performance measure P if its performance on T as measured by P improves with experience E."  
         ^  Alan Turing suggested in "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" that a "thinking machine" would need to be educated like a child. Developmental robotics is a modern version of the idea.  
         ^  Compared with symbolic logic, formal Bayesian inference is computationally expensive. For inference to be tractable, most observations must be conditionally independent of one another. AdSense uses a Bayesian network with over 300&nbsp;million edges to learn which ads to serve.  
         ^ Expectation-maximization, one of the most popular algorithms in machine learning, allows clustering in the presence of unknown latent variables.  
         ^  The Smithsonian reports: "Pluribus has bested poker pros in a series of six-player no-limit Texas Hold'em games, reaching a milestone in artificial intelligence research. It is the first bot to beat humans in a complex multiplayer competition."  
         ^  The distinction between "acting" and "thinking" is due to Russell and Norvig.  
         ^  The distinction between "acting humanly" and "acting rationally" is due to Russell and Norvig. Pamela McCorduck wrote in 2004 that there are "two major branches of artificial intelligence: one aimed at producing intelligent behavior regardless of how it was accomplished, and the other aimed at modeling intelligent processes found in nature, particularly human ones."  
         ^ Nils Nilsson wrote in 1983: "Simply put, there is wide disagreement in the field about what AI is all about."  
         ^  Daniel Crevier wrote that "time has proven the accuracy and perceptiveness of some of Dreyfus's comments. Had he formulated them less aggressively, constructive actions they suggested might have been taken much earlier."  
         ^  Searle presented this definition of "Strong AI" in 1999. Searle's original formulation was "The appropriately programmed computer really is a mind, in the sense that computers given the right programs can be literally said to understand and have other cognitive states." Strong AI is defined similarly by Russell and Norvig: "The assertion that machines could possibly act intelligently (or, perhaps better, act as if they were intelligent) is called the 'weak AI' hypothesis by philosophers, and the assertion that machines that do so are actually thinking (as opposed to simulating thinking) is called the 'strong AI' hypothesis."  
         ^ See table 4; 9% is both the OECD average and the US average.  
         ^ Rodney Brooks writes, "I think it is a mistake to be worrying about us developing malevolent AI anytime in the next few hundred years. I think the worry stems from a fundamental error in not distinguishing the difference between the very real recent advances in a particular aspect of AI and the enormity and complexity of building sentient volitional intelligence."  
        
       
       
      Citations 
      
       
        
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2009), p.&nbsp;2.  
        ^ Google (2016).  
        ^ McCorduck (2004), p.&nbsp;204.  
        ^ Ashok83 (2019).  
        ^ Schank (1991), p.&nbsp;38.  
        ^ Crevier (1993), p.&nbsp;109.  
        ^ a b c  Funding initiatives in the early 80s: Fifth Generation Project (Japan), Alvey (UK), Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation (US), Strategic Computing Initiative (US): 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;426–441) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;161–162, 197–203, 211, 240) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;24) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;210–211) 
           Newquist (1994, pp.&nbsp;235–248)
            
        ^ a b  First AI Winter, Lighthill report, Mansfield Amendment 
          
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;115–117) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;22) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;212–213) 
           Howe (1994) 
           Newquist (1994, pp.&nbsp;189–201)
            
        ^ a b  Second AI Winter: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;430–435) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;209–210) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;214–216) 
           Newquist (1994, pp.&nbsp;301–318)
            
        ^ a b c d Clark (2015b). sfnp error: no target: CITEREFClark2015b (help)  
        ^ a b  AI widely used in late 1990s: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;28) 
           Kurzweil (2005, p.&nbsp;265) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;216–222) 
           Newquist (1994, pp.&nbsp;189–201)
            
        ^ a b  Pennachin &amp; Goertzel (2007); Roberts (2016)  
        ^ McCarthy et al. (1955).  
        ^ Newquist (1994), pp.&nbsp;45–53.  
        ^ Spadafora (2016).  
        ^ Lombardo, Boehm &amp; Nairz (2020).  
        ^ a b  AI in myth: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;4–5) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;939)
            
        ^ McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;17–25.  
        ^ a b McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;340–400.  
        ^ Berlinski (2000).  
        ^  AI's immediate precursors: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;51–107) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;27–32) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;15, 940) 
           Moravec (1988, p.&nbsp;3)
            
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2009), p.&nbsp;16.  
        ^ Crevier (1993), pp.&nbsp;47–49.  
        ^ a b Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;17.  
        ^  Dartmouth workshop: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;17) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;111–136) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;200–201)
           The proposal: 
          
           McCarthy et al. (1955)
            
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;18.  
        ^  Successful Symbolic AI programs: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;243–252) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;52–107) 
           Moravec (1988, p.&nbsp;9) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;18–21)
            
        ^  AI heavily funded in 1960s: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, p.&nbsp;131) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;51, 64–65) 
           NRC (1999, pp.&nbsp;204–205)
            
        ^ Howe (1994).  
        ^ Newquist (1994), pp.&nbsp;86–86.  
        ^  Simon (1965, p.&nbsp;96) quoted in Crevier (1993, p.&nbsp;109)  
        ^  Minsky (1967, p.&nbsp;2) quoted in Crevier (1993, p.&nbsp;109)  
        ^ Lighthill (1973).  
        ^  Expert systems: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;22–24) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;227–331) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 17.4) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;327–335, 434–435) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;145–62, 197–203) 
           Newquist (1994, pp.&nbsp;155–183)
            
        ^ Nilsson (1998), p.&nbsp;7.  
        ^ McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;454–462.  
        ^ Moravec (1988).  
        ^ a b Brooks (1990).  
        ^ a b  Developmental robotics: 
          
           Weng et al. (2001) 
           Lungarella et al. (2003) 
           Asada et al. (2009) 
           Oudeyer (2010)
            
        ^  Revival of connectionism: 
          
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;214–215) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;25)
            
        ^  Formal and narrow methods adopted in the 1990s: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;25–26) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;486–487)
            
        ^ McKinsey (2018).  
        ^ MIT Sloan Management Review (2018); Lorica (2017)  
        ^ a b c d UNESCO (2021).  
        ^  Problem solving, puzzle solving, game playing and deduction: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, chpt. 3–9) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, chpt. 2,3,7,9) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, chpt. 3,4,6,8) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 7–12)
            
        ^  Uncertain reasoning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;452–644) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;345–395) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;333–381) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 19)
            
        ^ a b c  Intractability and efficiency and the combinatorial explosion: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;9, 21–22)
            
        ^ a b c  Psychological evidence of the prevalence sub-symbolic reasoning and knowledge: 
          
           Kahneman (2011) 
           Wason &amp; Shapiro (1966) 
           Kahneman, Slovic &amp; Tversky (1982) 
           Dreyfus &amp; Dreyfus (1986)
            
        ^  Knowledge representation and knowledge engineering: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;260–266, 320–363) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;23–46, 69–81, 169–233, 235–277, 281–298, 319–345) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;227–243), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 17.1–17.4, 18)
            
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), pp.&nbsp;320–328.  
        ^ a b c  Representing categories and relations: Semantic networks, description logics, inheritance (including frames and scripts): 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;349–354), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;174–177), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;248–258), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 18.3)
            
        ^ a b Representing events and time:Situation calculus, event calculus, fluent calculus (including solving the frame problem): 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;328–341), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;281–298), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 18.2)
            
        ^ a b  Causal calculus: 
          
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;335–337)
            
        ^ a b  Representing knowledge about knowledge: Belief calculus, modal logics: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;341–344), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;275–277)
            
        ^ a b  Default reasoning, Frame problem, default logic, non-monotonic logics, circumscription, closed world assumption, abduction: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;354–360) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;248–256, 323–335) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;335–363) 
           Nilsson (1998, ~18.3.3)
           (Poole et al. places abduction under "default reasoning". Luger et al. places this under "uncertain reasoning").  
        ^ a b  Breadth of commonsense knowledge: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;21), 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;113–114), 
           Moravec (1988, p.&nbsp;13), 
           Lenat &amp; Guha (1989, Introduction)
            
        ^ Smoliar &amp; Zhang (1994).  
        ^ Neumann &amp; Möller (2008).  
        ^ Kuperman, Reichley &amp; Bailey (2006).  
        ^ McGarry (2005).  
        ^ Bertini, Del Bimbo &amp; Torniai (2006).  
        ^  Planning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;375–459) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;281–316) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;314–329) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 10.1–2, 22)
           Information value theory: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;600–604)
            
        ^  Classical planning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;375–430) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;281–315) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;314–329) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 10.1–2, 22)
            
        ^  Planning and acting in non-deterministic domains: conditional planning, execution monitoring, replanning and continuous planning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;430–449)
            
        ^  Multi-agent planning and emergent behavior: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;449–455)
            
        ^ a b Turing (1950). sfnp error: no target: CITEREFTuring1950 (help)  
        ^ Solomonoff (1956).  
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), pp.&nbsp;649–788.  
        ^  Learning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;649–788) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;397–438) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;385–542) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 3.3, 10.3, 17.5, 20)
            
        ^  Reinforcement learning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;763–788) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;442–449)
            
        ^ The Economist (2016).  
        ^ Jordan &amp; Mitchell (2015).  
        ^  Natural language processing (NLP): 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;790–831) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;91–104) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;591–632)
            
        ^  Applications of NLP: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;840–857) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;623–630)
            
        ^ Modern statistical approaches to NLP: 
          
           Cambria &amp; White (2014)
            
        ^ Vincent (2019).  
        ^  Machine perception: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;537–581, 863–898) 
           Nilsson (1998, ~chpt. 6)
            
        ^  Speech recognition: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;568–578)
            
        ^  Object recognition: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;885–892)
            
        ^  Computer vision: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;863–898) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 6)
            
        ^  Robotics: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;901–942) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;443–460)
            
        ^  Robotic mapping and Localization: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;908–915) 
           Cadena et al. (2016)
            
        ^ Motion planning and configuration space: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;916–932) 
           Tecuci (2012)
            
        ^ MIT AIL (2014).  
        ^  Affective computing: 
          
           Thro (1993) 
           Edelson (1991) 
           Tao &amp; Tan (2005) 
           Scassellati (2002)
            
        ^ Waddell (2018).  
        ^ Poria et al. (2017).  
        ^  The Society of Mind: 
          
           Minsky (1986)
           Moravec's "golden spike": 
          
           Moravec (1988, p.&nbsp;20)
           Multi-agent systems, hybrid intelligent systems, agent architectures, cognitive architecture: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;27, 932, 970–972) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 25)
            
        ^ Domingos (2015), Chpt. 9.  
        ^  Artificial brain as an approach to AGI: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;957) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;271 &amp; 279) 
           Goertzel et. al. (2010)
           A few of the people who make some form of the argument: 
          
           Moravec (1988, p.&nbsp;20) 
           Kurzweil (2005, p.&nbsp;262) 
           Hawkins &amp; Blakeslee (2005)
            
        ^  Search algorithms: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;59–189) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;113–163) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;79–164, 193–219) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 7–12)
            
        ^  Forward chaining, backward chaining, Horn clauses, and logical deduction as search: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;217–225, 280–294) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;~46–52) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;62–73) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 4.2, 7.2)
            
        ^  State space search and planning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;382–387) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;298–305) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 10.1–2)
            
        ^ Moving and configuration space: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;916–932)
            
        ^ Uninformed searches (breadth first search, depth first search and general state space search): 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;59–93) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;113–132) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;79–121) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 8)
            
        ^  Heuristic or informed searches (e.g., greedy best first and A*): 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;94–109) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;pp. 132–147) 
           Poole &amp; Mackworth (2017, Section 3.6) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;133–150)
            
        ^ Tecuci (2012).  
        ^ Optimization searches: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;110–116, 120–129) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;56–163) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;127–133)
            
        ^  Genetic programming and genetic algorithms: 
          
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;509–530) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 4.2)
            
        ^  Artificial life and society based learning: 
          
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;530–541) 
           Merkle &amp; Middendorf (2013)
            
        ^  Logic: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;194–310), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;35–77), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 13–16)
            
        ^  Satplan: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;402–407), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;300–301), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 21)
            
        ^  Explanation based learning, relevance based learning, inductive logic programming, case based reasoning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;678–710), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;414–416), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;~422–442), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 10.3, 17.5)
            
        ^  Propositional logic: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;204–233), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;45–50) 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 13)
            
        ^ First-order logic and features such as equality: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;240–310), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;268–275), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;50–62), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 15)
            
        ^  Fuzzy logic: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;526–527) 
           Scientific American (1999)
            
        ^  Stochastic methods for uncertain reasoning: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;462–644), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;345–395), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;165–191, 333–381), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 19)
            
        ^  Bayesian networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;492–523), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;361–381), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;~182–190, ≈363–379), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 19.3–4)
            
        ^ Domingos (2015), chapter 6.  
        ^  Bayesian inference algorithm: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;504–519), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;361–381), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;~363–379), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 19.4 &amp; 7)
            
        ^ Domingos (2015), p.&nbsp;210.  
        ^  Bayesian learning and the expectation-maximization algorithm: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;712–724), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;424–433), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 20) 
           Domingos (2015, p.&nbsp;210)
            
        ^ Bayesian decision theory and Bayesian decision networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;597–600)
            
        ^ a b c Stochastic temporal models: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;537–581)
           Dynamic Bayesian networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;551–557)
           Hidden Markov model: 
          
           (Russell &amp; Norvig 2003, pp.&nbsp;549–551)
           Kalman filters: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;551–557)
            
        ^  decision theory and decision analysis: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;584–597), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;381–394)
            
        ^  Information value theory: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;600–604)
            
        ^ Markov decision processes and dynamic decision networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;613–631)
            
        ^ Game theory and mechanism design: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;631–643)
            
        ^  Statistical learning methods and classifiers: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;712–754), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;453–541)
            
        ^  Decision tree: 
          
           Domingos (2015, p.&nbsp;88) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;653–664), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;403–408), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;408–417)
            
        ^  K-nearest neighbor algorithm: 
          
           Domingos (2015, p.&nbsp;187) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;733–736)
            
        ^  kernel methods such as the support vector machine: 
          
           Domingos (2015, p.&nbsp;88) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;749–752)
           Gaussian mixture model: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;725–727)
            
        ^ Domingos (2015), p.&nbsp;152.  
        ^  Naive Bayes classifier: 
          
           Domingos (2015, p.&nbsp;152) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;718)
            
        ^ a b  Neural networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;736–748), 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;408–414), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;453–505), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 3) 
           Domingos (2015, Chapter 4)
            
        ^  Classifier performance: 
          
           van der Walt &amp; Bernard (2006) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2009, 18.12: Learning from Examples: Summary)
            
        ^  Backpropagation: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;744–748), 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;467–474), 
           Nilsson (1998, chpt. 3.3)
           Paul Werbos' introduction of backpropagation to AI: 
          
           Werbos (1974); Werbos (1982)
           Automatic differentiation, an essential precursor: 
          
           Linnainmaa (1970); Griewank (2012)
            
        ^  Competitive learning, Hebbian coincidence learning, Hopfield networks and attractor networks: 
          
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;474–505)
            
        ^  Feedforward neural networks, perceptrons and radial basis networks: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;739–748, 758) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;458–467)
            
        ^ Schulz &amp; Behnke (2012).  
        ^  Deep learning: 
          
           Goodfellow, Bengio &amp; Courville (2016) 
           Hinton et. al. (2016) 
           Schmidhuber (2015a) harvtxt error: no target: CITEREFSchmidhuber2015a (help)
            
        ^ Deng &amp; Yu (2014), pp.&nbsp;199–200.  
        ^ Ciresan, Meier &amp; Schmidhuber (2012).  
        ^ Habibi (2017).  
        ^ Fukushima (2007).  
        ^  Recurrent neural networks, Hopfield nets: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;758) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;474–505) 
           Schmidhuber (2015)
            
        ^ Schmidhuber (2015a). sfnp error: no target: CITEREFSchmidhuber2015a (help)  
        ^  Werbos (1988); Robinson &amp; Fallside (1987); Williams &amp; Zipser (1994)  
        ^  Goodfellow, Bengio &amp; Courville (2016); Hochreiter (1991)  
        ^ Hochreiter &amp; Schmidhuber (1997); Gers, Schraudolph &amp; Schraudolph (2002)  
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2009), p.&nbsp;1.  
        ^ European Commission (2020), p.&nbsp;1.  
        ^ CNN (2006).  
        ^  Targeted advertising: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2009, p.&nbsp;1) 
           Economist (2016) 
           Lohr (2016)
            
        ^ Lohr (2016).  
        ^ Smith (2016).  
        ^ Rowinski (2013).  
        ^ Frangoul (2019).  
        ^ Brown (2019).  
        ^ McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;480–483.  
        ^ Markoff (2011).  
        ^  Google (2016); BBC (2016)  
        ^ Solly (2019).  
        ^ Bowling et al. (2015).  
        ^ Sample (2017).  
        ^ Anadiotis (2020).  
        ^ Heath (2020).  
        ^ Aletras et. al. (2016).  
        ^ Turing (1950), p.&nbsp;1. sfnp error: no target: CITEREFTuring1950 (help)  
        ^ Turing (1948).  
        ^  Turing's original publication of the Turing test in "Computing machinery and intelligence": 
          
           Turing (1950) harvtxt error: no target: CITEREFTuring1950 (help)
           Historical influence and philosophical implications: 
          
           Haugeland (1985, pp.&nbsp;6–9) 
           Crevier (1993, p.&nbsp;24) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;70–71) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;2–3 and 948)
            
        ^ a b c Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;3.  
        ^ Maker (2006).  
        ^ McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;100–101.  
        ^  The intelligent agent paradigm: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;27, 32–58, 968–972) 
           Poole, Mackworth &amp; Goebel (1998, pp.&nbsp;7–21) 
           Luger &amp; Stubblefield (2004, pp.&nbsp;235–240) 
           Hutter (2005, pp.&nbsp;125–126)
           The definition used in this article, in terms of goals, actions, perception and environment, is due to Russell &amp; Norvig (2003). Other definitions also include knowledge, learning and autonomy as additional criteria.  
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;27.  
        ^ Nilsson (1983), p.&nbsp;10.  
        ^ Haugeland (1985), pp.&nbsp;112–117.  
        ^  Physical symbol system hypothesis: 
          
           Newell &amp; Simon (1976, p.&nbsp;116)
           Historical significance: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, p.&nbsp;153) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;18)
            
        ^  Moravec's paradox: 
          
           Moravec (1988, pp.&nbsp;15–16) 
           Minsky (1986, p.&nbsp;29) 
           Pinker (2007, pp.&nbsp;190–91)
            
        ^  Dreyfus' critique of AI: 
          
           Dreyfus (1972) 
           Dreyfus &amp; Dreyfus (1986)
           Historical significance and philosophical implications: 
          
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;120–132) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;211–239) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;950–952) 
           Fearn (2007, Chpt. 3)
            
        ^ Crevier (1993), p.&nbsp;125.  
        ^ Langley (2011).  
        ^ Katz (2012).  
        ^  Neats vs. scruffies, the historic debate: 
          
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;421–424, 486–489) 
           Crevier (1993, p.&nbsp;168) 
           Nilsson (1983, pp.&nbsp;10–11)
           A classic example of the "scruffy" approach to intelligence: 
          
           Minsky (1986)
           A modern example of neat AI and its aspirations: 
          
           Domingos (2015)
            
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;25-26.  
        ^ Pennachin &amp; Goertzel (2007).  
        ^ a b Roberts (2016).  
        ^ a b Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;947.  
        ^ Chalmers (1995).  
        ^ Dennett (1991).  
        ^ Horst (2005).  
        ^ Searle (1999).  
        ^ Searle (1980), p.&nbsp;1.  
        ^  Searle's Chinese room argument: 
          
           Searle (1980). Searle's original presentation of the thought experiment. 
           Searle (1999).
           Discussion: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, pp.&nbsp;958–960) 
           McCorduck (2004, pp.&nbsp;443–445) 
           Crevier (1993, pp.&nbsp;269–271)
            
        ^  Robot rights: 
          
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;964) 
           BBC (2006) 
           Maschafilm (2010) (the film Plug &amp; Pray)
            
        ^ Evans (2015).  
        ^ McCorduck (2004), pp.&nbsp;19–25.  
        ^ Henderson (2007).  
        ^ Omohundro (2008).  
        ^ Vinge (1993).  
        ^ Russell &amp; Norvig (2003), p.&nbsp;963.  
        ^  Transhumanism: 
          
           Moravec (1988) 
           Kurzweil (2005) 
           Russell &amp; Norvig (2003, p.&nbsp;963)
            
        ^  AI as evolution: 
          
           Edward Fredkin is quoted in McCorduck (2004, p.&nbsp;401) 
           Butler (1863) 
           Dyson (1998)
            
        ^  Ford &amp; Colvin (2015); McGaughey (2018)  
        ^ IGM Chicago (2017).  
        ^ Arntz, Gregory &amp; Zierahn (2016), p.&nbsp;33.  
        ^  Lohr (2017); Frey &amp; Osborne (2017); Arntz, Gregory &amp; Zierahn (2016, p.&nbsp;33)  
        ^ Morgenstern (2015).  
        ^ Mahdawi (2017); Thompson (2014)  
        ^ Harari (2018).  
        ^  Weaponized AI: 
          
           Robitzski (2018) 
           Sainato (2015)
            
        ^ CNA (2019).  
        ^ Goffrey (2008), p.&nbsp;17.  
        ^ Lipartito (2011, p.&nbsp;36); Goodman &amp; Flaxman (2017, p.&nbsp;6)  
        ^ Larson &amp; Angwin (2016).  
        ^ Cellan-Jones (2014).  
        ^ Bostrom (2014); Müller &amp; Bostrom (2014); Bostrom (2015)  
        ^ Rubin (2003).  
        ^ Müller &amp; Bostrom (2014).  
        ^  Leaders' concerns about the existential risks of AI: 
          
           Rawlinson (2015) 
           Holley (2015) 
           Gibbs (2014) 
           Churm (2019) 
           Sainato (2015)
            
        ^  Funding to mitigate risks of AI: 
          
           Post (2015) 
           Del Prado (2015) 
           Clark (2015a) harvtxt error: no target: CITEREFClark2015a (help) 
           FastCompany (2015)
            
        ^  Leaders who argue the benefits of AI outweigh the risks: 
          
           Thibodeau (2019) 
           Bhardwaj (2018)
            
        ^  Arguments that AI is not an imminent risk: 
          
           Brooks (2014) 
           Geist (2015) 
           Madrigal (2015) 
           Lee (2014)
            
        ^ Brooks (2014).  
        ^ Yudkowsky (2008).  
        ^ a b Anderson &amp; Anderson (2011).  
        ^ AAAI (2014).  
        ^ Wallach (2010).  
        ^ Russell (2019), p.&nbsp;173.  
        ^  Regulation of AI to mitigate risks: 
          
           Berryhill et al. (2019) 
           Barfield &amp; Pagallo (2018) 
           Iphofen &amp; Kritikos (2019) 
           Wirtz, Weyerer &amp; Geyer (2018) 
           Buiten (2019)
            
        ^ Law Library of Congress (U.S.). Global Legal Research Directorate (2019).  
        ^ Kissinger, Henry (1 November 2021). "The Challenge of Being Human in the Age of AI". The Wall Street Journal.  
        ^ Buttazzo (2001).  
        ^ Anderson (2008).  
        ^ McCauley (2007).  
        ^ Galvan (1997).  
       
       
      References 
      AI textbooks 
      These were the four the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008.  
      
       
       
        
         Luger, George; Stubblefield, William (2004). Artificial Intelligence: Structures and Strategies for Complex Problem Solving (5th&nbsp;ed.). Benjamin/Cummings. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8053-4780-7. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 17 December 2019. 
        
         Nilsson, Nils (1998). Artificial Intelligence: A New Synthesis. Morgan Kaufmann. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55860-467-4. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
        
         Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2003), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd&nbsp;ed.), Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, ISBN&nbsp;0-13-790395-2. 
        
         Poole, David; Mackworth, Alan; Goebel, Randy (1998). Computational Intelligence: A Logical Approach. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-510270-3. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020.
        
       Later editions.  
       
        
         Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2009). Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-604259-4.. 
        
         Poole, David; Mackworth, Alan (2017). Artificial Intelligence: Foundations of Computational Agents (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-107-19539-4.
        
       The two most widely used textbooks in 2021.  
       
        
         Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2021). Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (4th&nbsp;ed.). Hoboken: Pearson. ISBN&nbsp;9780134610993. LCCN&nbsp;20190474. 
        
         Knight, Kevin; Rich, Elaine (1 January 2010). Artificial Intelligence (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Mc Graw Hill India. ISBN&nbsp;9780070087705.
        
       
      History of AI 
      
       
       
        
         Crevier, Daniel (1993). AI: The Tumultuous Search for Artificial Intelligence. New York, NY: BasicBooks. ISBN&nbsp;0-465-02997-3.. 
        
         McCorduck, Pamela (2004), Machines Who Think (2nd&nbsp;ed.), Natick, MA: A. K. Peters, Ltd., ISBN&nbsp;1-56881-205-1. 
        
         Newquist, HP (1994). The Brain Makers: Genius, Ego, And Greed In The Quest For Machines That Think. New York: Macmillan/SAMS. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-672-30412-5. 
        
         Nilsson, Nils (2009). The Quest for Artificial Intelligence: A History of Ideas and Achievements. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-12293-1.
        
       
      Other sources 
      
       
        Werbos, P. J. (1988), "Generalization of backpropagation with application to a recurrent gas market model", Neural Networks, 1 (4): 339–356, doi:10.1016/0893-6080(88)90007-X 
       
        Gers, Felix A.; Schraudolph, Nicol N.; Schraudolph, Jürgen (2002). "Learning Precise Timing with LSTM Recurrent Networks" (PDF). Journal of Machine Learning Research. 3: 115–143. Retrieved 13 June 2017. 
       
        Deng, L.; Yu, D. (2014). "Deep Learning: Methods and Applications" (PDF). Foundations and Trends in Signal Processing. 7 (3–4): 1–199. doi:10.1561/2000000039. Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 March 2016. Retrieved 18 October 2014. 
       
        Schulz, Hannes; Behnke, Sven (1 November 2012). "Deep Learning". KI - Künstliche Intelligenz. 26 (4): 357–363. doi:10.1007/s13218-012-0198-z. ISSN&nbsp;1610-1987. S2CID&nbsp;220523562. 
       
        Fukushima, K. (2007). "Neocognitron". Scholarpedia. 2 (1): 1717. Bibcode:2007SchpJ...2.1717F. doi:10.4249/scholarpedia.1717. was introduced by Kunihiko Fukushima in 1980. 
       
        Habibi, Aghdam, Hamed (30 May 2017). Guide to convolutional neural networks&nbsp;: a practical application to traffic-sign detection and classification. Heravi, Elnaz Jahani. Cham, Switzerland. ISBN&nbsp;9783319575490. OCLC&nbsp;987790957. 
       
        Ciresan, D.; Meier, U.; Schmidhuber, J. (2012). "Multi-column deep neural networks for image classification". 2012 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp.&nbsp;3642–3649. arXiv:1202.2745. doi:10.1109/cvpr.2012.6248110. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4673-1228-8. S2CID&nbsp;2161592. 
       
        "From not working to neural networking". The Economist. 2016. Archived from the original on 31 December 2016. Retrieved 26 April 2018. 
       
        Thompson, Derek (23 January 2014). "What Jobs Will the Robots Take?". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 24 April 2018. Retrieved 24 April 2018. 
       
        Scassellati, Brian (2002). "Theory of mind for a humanoid robot". Autonomous Robots. 12 (1): 13–24. doi:10.1023/A:1013298507114. S2CID&nbsp;1979315. 
       
        Sample, Ian (14 March 2017). "Google's DeepMind makes AI program that can learn like a human". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 26 April 2018. Retrieved 26 April 2018. 
       
        Heath, Nick (11 December 2020). "What is AI? Everything you need to know about Artificial Intelligence". ZDNet. Retrieved 1 March 2021. 
       
        Bowling, Michael; Burch, Neil; Johanson, Michael; Tammelin, Oskari (9 January 2015). "Heads-up limit hold'em poker is solved". Science. 347 (6218): 145–149. Bibcode:2015Sci...347..145B. doi:10.1126/science.1259433. ISSN&nbsp;0036-8075. PMID&nbsp;25574016. S2CID&nbsp;3796371. 
       
        Solly, Meilan (15 July 2019). "This Poker-Playing A.I. Knows When to Hold 'Em and When to Fold 'Em". Smithsonian. 
       
        "Artificial intelligence: Google's AlphaGo beats Go master Lee Se-dol". BBC News. 12 March 2016. Archived from the original on 26 August 2016. Retrieved 1 October 2016. 
       
        Rowinski, Dan (15 January 2013). "Virtual Personal Assistants &amp; The Future Of Your Smartphone ". ReadWrite. Archived from the original on 22 December 2015. 
       
        Markoff, John (16 February 2011). "Computer Wins on 'Jeopardy!': Trivial, It's Not". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 22 October 2014. Retrieved 25 October 2014. 
       
        Anadiotis, George (1 October 2020). "The state of AI in 2020: Democratization, industrialization, and the way to artificial general intelligence". ZDNet. Retrieved 1 March 2021. 
       
        Goertzel, Ben; Lian, Ruiting; Arel, Itamar; de Garis, Hugo; Chen, Shuo (December 2010). "A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part II: Biologically inspired cognitive architectures". Neurocomputing. 74 (1–3): 30–49. doi:10.1016/j.neucom.2010.08.012. 
       
        Robinson, A. J.; Fallside, F. (1987), "The utility driven dynamic error propagation network.", Technical Report CUED/F-INFENG/TR.1, Cambridge University Engineering Department 
       
        Hochreiter, Sepp (1991). Untersuchungen zu dynamischen neuronalen Netzen (PDF) (diploma thesis). Munich: Institut f. Informatik, Technische Univ. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 March 2015. Retrieved 16 April 2016. 
       
        Williams, R. J.; Zipser, D. (1994), "Gradient-based learning algorithms for recurrent networks and their computational complexity", Back-propagation: Theory, Architectures and Applications, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum 
       
        Hochreiter, Sepp; Schmidhuber, Jürgen (1997), "Long Short-Term Memory", Neural Computation, 9 (8): 1735–1780, doi:10.1162/neco.1997.9.8.1735, PMID&nbsp;9377276, S2CID&nbsp;1915014
       
      
       
        Goodfellow, Ian; Bengio, Yoshua; Courville, Aaron (2016), Deep Learning, MIT Press., archived from the original on 16 April 2016, retrieved 12 November 2017 
       
        Hinton, G.; Deng, L.; Yu, D.; Dahl, G.; Mohamed, A.; Jaitly, N.; Senior, A.; Vanhoucke, V.; Nguyen, P.; Sainath, T.; Kingsbury, B. (2012). "Deep Neural Networks for Acoustic Modeling in Speech Recognition – The shared views of four research groups". IEEE Signal Processing Magazine. 29 (6): 82–97. Bibcode:2012ISPM...29...82H. doi:10.1109/msp.2012.2205597. S2CID&nbsp;206485943. 
       
        Schmidhuber, J. (2015). "Deep Learning in Neural Networks: An Overview". Neural Networks. 61: 85–117. arXiv:1404.7828. doi:10.1016/j.neunet.2014.09.003. PMID&nbsp;25462637. S2CID&nbsp;11715509. 
       
        Linnainmaa, Seppo (1970). The representation of the cumulative rounding error of an algorithm as a Taylor expansion of the local rounding errors (Thesis) (in Finnish). Univ. Helsinki, 6–7.| 
       
        Griewank, Andreas (2012). "Who Invented the Reverse Mode of Differentiation? Optimization Stories". Documenta Matematica, Extra Volume ISMP: 389–400. 
       
        Werbos, Paul (1974). Beyond Regression: New Tools for Prediction and Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences (Ph.D. thesis). Harvard University. 
       
        Werbos, Paul (1982). "Beyond Regression: New Tools for Prediction and Analysis in the Behavioral Sciences" (PDF). System Modeling and Optimization. Applications of advances in nonlinear sensitivity analysis. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 April 2016. Retrieved 16 April 2016. 
       
        "What is 'fuzzy logic'? Are there computers that are inherently fuzzy and do not apply the usual binary logic?". Scientific American. 21 October 1999. Retrieved 5 May 2018. 
       
        Merkle, Daniel; Middendorf, Martin (2013). "Swarm Intelligence". In Burke, Edmund K.; Kendall, Graham (eds.). Search Methodologies: Introductory Tutorials in Optimization and Decision Support Techniques. Springer Science &amp; Business Media. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4614-6940-7. 
       
        van der Walt, Christiaan; Bernard, Etienne (2006). "Data characteristics that determine classifier performance" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 March 2009. Retrieved 5 August 2009. 
       
        Hutter, Marcus (2005). Universal Artificial Intelligence. Berlin: Springer. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-22139-5. 
       
        Howe, J. (November 1994). "Artificial Intelligence at Edinburgh University: a Perspective". Archived from the original on 15 May 2007. Retrieved 30 August 2007. 
       
        Galvan, Jill (1 January 1997). "Entering the Posthuman Collective in Philip K. Dick's "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"". Science Fiction Studies. 24 (3): 413–429. JSTOR&nbsp;4240644. 
       
        McCauley, Lee (2007). "AI armageddon and the three laws of robotics". Ethics and Information Technology. 9 (2): 153–164. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.85.8904. doi:10.1007/s10676-007-9138-2. S2CID&nbsp;37272949. 
       
        Buttazzo, G. (July 2001). "Artificial consciousness: Utopia or real possibility?". Computer. 34 (7): 24–30. doi:10.1109/2.933500. 
       
        Anderson, Susan Leigh (2008). "Asimov's "three laws of robotics" and machine metaethics". AI &amp; Society. 22 (4): 477–493. doi:10.1007/s00146-007-0094-5. S2CID&nbsp;1809459. 
       
        Yudkowsky, E (2008), "Artificial Intelligence as a Positive and Negative Factor in Global Risk" (PDF), Global Catastrophic Risks, Oxford University Press, 2008, Bibcode:2008gcr..book..303Y 
       
        McGaughey, E (2018), Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy, p.&nbsp;SSRN part 2(3), SSRN&nbsp;3044448, archived from the original on 24 May 2018, retrieved 12 January 2018 
       
        IGM Chicago (30 June 2017). "Robots and Artificial Intelligence". www.igmchicago.org. Archived from the original on 1 May 2019. Retrieved 3 July 2019. 
       
        Lohr, Steve (2017). "Robots Will Take Jobs, but Not as Fast as Some Fear, New Report Says". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 14 January 2018. Retrieved 13 January 2018. 
       
        Frey, Carl Benedikt; Osborne, Michael A (1 January 2017). "The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation?". Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 114: 254–280. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.395.416. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2016.08.019. ISSN&nbsp;0040-1625. 
       
        Arntz, Melanie; Gregory, Terry; Zierahn, Ulrich (2016), "The risk of automation for jobs in OECD countries: A comparative analysis", OECD Social, Employment, and Migration Working Papers 189 
       
        Morgenstern, Michael (9 May 2015). "Automation and anxiety". The Economist. Archived from the original on 12 January 2018. Retrieved 13 January 2018. 
       
        Mahdawi, Arwa (26 June 2017). "What jobs will still be around in 20 years? Read this to prepare your future". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 14 January 2018. Retrieved 13 January 2018. 
       
        Rubin, Charles (Spring 2003). "Artificial Intelligence and Human Nature". The New Atlantis. 1: 88–100. Archived from the original on 11 June 2012. 
       
        Bostrom, Nick (2014). Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies. Oxford University Press. 
       
        Brooks, Rodney (10 November 2014). "artificial intelligence is a tool, not a threat". Archived from the original on 12 November 2014. 
       
        Sainato, Michael (19 August 2015). "Stephen Hawking, Elon Musk, and Bill Gates Warn About Artificial Intelligence". Observer. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Harari, Yuval Noah (October 2018). "Why Technology Favors Tyranny". The Atlantic. 
       
        Robitzski, Dan (5 September 2018). "Five experts share what scares them the most about AI". Archived from the original on 8 December 2019. Retrieved 8 December 2019. 
       
        Goffrey, Andrew (2008). "Algorithm". In Fuller, Matthew (ed.). Software studies: a lexicon. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;15–20. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4356-4787-9. 
       
        Lipartito, Kenneth (6 January 2011). "The Narrative and the Algorithm: Genres of Credit Reporting from the Nineteenth Century to Today" (PDF) (Submitted manuscript). doi:10.2139/ssrn.1736283. S2CID&nbsp;166742927. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
       
        Goodman, Bryce; Flaxman, Seth (2017). "EU regulations on algorithmic decision-making and a "right to explanation"". AI Magazine. 38 (3): 50. arXiv:1606.08813. doi:10.1609/aimag.v38i3.2741. S2CID&nbsp;7373959. 
       
        CNA (12 January 2019). "Commentary: Bad news. Artificial intelligence is biased". CNA. Archived from the original on 12 January 2019. Retrieved 19 June 2020. 
       
        Larson, Jeff; Angwin, Julia (23 May 2016). "How We Analyzed the COMPAS Recidivism Algorithm". ProPublica. Archived from the original on 29 April 2019. Retrieved 19 June 2020. 
       
        Müller, Vincent C.; Bostrom, Nick (2014). "Future Progress in Artificial Intelligence: A Poll Among Experts" (PDF). AI Matters. 1 (1): 9–11. doi:10.1145/2639475.2639478. S2CID&nbsp;8510016. Archived (PDF) from the original on 15 January 2016. 
       
        Cellan-Jones, Rory (2 December 2014). "Stephen Hawking warns artificial intelligence could end mankind". BBC News. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Rawlinson, Kevin (29 January 2015). "Microsoft's Bill Gates insists AI is a threat". BBC News. Archived from the original on 29 January 2015. Retrieved 30 January 2015. 
       
        Holley, Peter (28 January 2015). "Bill Gates on dangers of artificial intelligence: 'I don't understand why some people are not concerned'". The Washington Post. ISSN&nbsp;0190-8286. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Gibbs, Samuel (27 October 2014). "Elon Musk: artificial intelligence is our biggest existential threat". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Churm, Philip Andrew (14 May 2019). "Yuval Noah Harari talks politics, technology and migration". euronews. Archived from the original on 14 May 2019. Retrieved 15 November 2020. 
       
        Bostrom, Nick (2015). "What happens when our computers get smarter than we are?". TED (conference). Archived from the original on 25 July 2020. Retrieved 30 January 2020. 
       
        Post, Washington (2015). "Tech titans like Elon Musk are spending $1 billion to save you from terminators". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on 7 June 2016. 
       
        Del Prado, Guia Marie (9 October 2015). "The mysterious artificial intelligence company Elon Musk invested in is developing game-changing smart computers". Tech Insider. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        FastCompany (15 January 2015). "Elon Musk Is Donating $10M Of His Own Money To Artificial Intelligence Research". Fast Company. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Thibodeau, Patrick (25 March 2019). "Oracle CEO Mark Hurd sees no reason to fear ERP AI". SearchERP. Archived from the original on 6 May 2019. Retrieved 6 May 2019. 
       
        Bhardwaj, Prachi (24 May 2018). "Mark Zuckerberg responds to Elon Musk's paranoia about AI: 'AI is going to... help keep our communities safe.'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on 6 May 2019. Retrieved 6 May 2019. 
       
        Geist, Edward Moore (9 August 2015). "Is artificial intelligence really an existential threat to humanity?". Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Madrigal, Alexis C. (27 February 2015). "The case against killer robots, from a guy actually working on artificial intelligence". Fusion.net. Archived from the original on 4 February 2016. Retrieved 31 January 2016. 
       
        Lee, Timothy B. (22 August 2014). "Will artificial intelligence destroy humanity? Here are 5 reasons not to worry". Vox. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Law Library of Congress (U.S.). Global Legal Research Directorate, issuing body. (2019). Regulation of artificial intelligence in selected jurisdictions. LCCN&nbsp;2019668143. OCLC&nbsp;1110727808. 
       
        UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development. Paris: UNESCO. 11 June 2021. ISBN&nbsp;978-92-3-100450-6. 
       
        Berryhill, Jamie; Heang, Kévin Kok; Clogher, Rob; McBride, Keegan (2019). Hello, World: Artificial Intelligence and its Use in the Public Sector (PDF). Paris: OECD Observatory of Public Sector Innovation. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 December 2019. Retrieved 9 August 2020. 
       
        Barfield, Woodrow; Pagallo, Ugo (2018). Research handbook on the law of artificial intelligence. Cheltenham, UK. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-78643-904-8. OCLC&nbsp;1039480085. 
       
        Iphofen, Ron; Kritikos, Mihalis (3 January 2019). "Regulating artificial intelligence and robotics: ethics by design in a digital society". Contemporary Social Science. 16 (2): 170–184. doi:10.1080/21582041.2018.1563803. ISSN&nbsp;2158-2041. S2CID&nbsp;59298502. 
       
        Wirtz, Bernd W.; Weyerer, Jan C.; Geyer, Carolin (24 July 2018). "Artificial Intelligence and the Public Sector – Applications and Challenges". International Journal of Public Administration. 42 (7): 596–615. doi:10.1080/01900692.2018.1498103. ISSN&nbsp;0190-0692. S2CID&nbsp;158829602. Archived from the original on 18 August 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Buiten, Miriam C (2019). "Towards Intelligent Regulation of Artificial Intelligence". European Journal of Risk Regulation. 10 (1): 41–59. doi:10.1017/err.2019.8. ISSN&nbsp;1867-299X. 
       
        Wallach, Wendell (2010). Moral Machines. Oxford University Press. 
       
        Brown, Eileen (5 November 2019). "Half of Americans do not believe deepfake news could target them online". ZDNet. Archived from the original on 6 November 2019. Retrieved 3 December 2019. 
       
        Frangoul, Anmar (14 June 2019). "A Californian business is using A.I. to change the way we think about energy storage". CNBC. Archived from the original on 25 July 2020. Retrieved 5 November 2019. 
       
        "The Economist Explains: Why firms are piling into artificial intelligence". The Economist. 31 March 2016. Archived from the original on 8 May 2016. Retrieved 19 May 2016. 
       
        Lohr, Steve (28 February 2016). "The Promise of Artificial Intelligence Unfolds in Small Steps". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 29 February 2016. Retrieved 29 February 2016. 
       
        Smith, Mark (22 July 2016). "So you think you chose to read this article?". BBC News. Archived from the original on 25 July 2016. 
       
        Aletras, N.; Tsarapatsanis, D.; Preotiuc-Pietro, D.; Lampos, V. (2016). "Predicting judicial decisions of the European Court of Human Rights: a Natural Language Processing perspective". PeerJ Computer Science. 2: e93. doi:10.7717/peerj-cs.93. 
       
        Cadena, Cesar; Carlone, Luca; Carrillo, Henry; Latif, Yasir; Scaramuzza, Davide; Neira, Jose; Reid, Ian; Leonard, John J. (December 2016). "Past, Present, and Future of Simultaneous Localization and Mapping: Toward the Robust-Perception Age". IEEE Transactions on Robotics. 32 (6): 1309–1332. arXiv:1606.05830. Bibcode:2016arXiv160605830C. doi:10.1109/TRO.2016.2624754. S2CID&nbsp;2596787. 
       
        Cambria, Erik; White, Bebo (May 2014). "Jumping NLP Curves: A Review of Natural Language Processing Research ". IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine. 9 (2): 48–57. doi:10.1109/MCI.2014.2307227. S2CID&nbsp;206451986. 
       
        Vincent, James (7 November 2019). "OpenAI has published the text-generating AI it said was too dangerous to share". The Verge. Archived from the original on 11 June 2020. Retrieved 11 June 2020. 
       
        Jordan, M. I.; Mitchell, T. M. (16 July 2015). "Machine learning: Trends, perspectives, and prospects". Science. 349 (6245): 255–260. Bibcode:2015Sci...349..255J. doi:10.1126/science.aaa8415. PMID&nbsp;26185243. S2CID&nbsp;677218. 
       
        Maschafilm (2010). "Content: Plug &amp; Pray Film – Artificial Intelligence – Robots -". plugandpray-film.de. Archived from the original on 12 February 2016. 
       
        Evans, Woody (2015). "Posthuman Rights: Dimensions of Transhuman Worlds". Teknokultura. 12 (2). doi:10.5209/rev_TK.2015.v12.n2.49072. 
       
        Waddell, Kaveh (2018). "Chatbots Have Entered the Uncanny Valley". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 24 April 2018. Retrieved 24 April 2018. 
       
        Poria, Soujanya; Cambria, Erik; Bajpai, Rajiv; Hussain, Amir (September 2017). "A review of affective computing: From unimodal analysis to multimodal fusion". Information Fusion. 37: 98–125. doi:10.1016/j.inffus.2017.02.003. hdl:1893/25490. 
       
        "Robots could demand legal rights". BBC News. 21 December 2006. Archived from the original on 15 October 2019. Retrieved 3 February 2011. 
       
        Horst, Steven (2005). "The Computational Theory of Mind". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Omohundro, Steve (2008). The Nature of Self-Improving Artificial Intelligence. presented and distributed at the 2007 Singularity Summit, San Francisco, CA. 
       
        Ford, Martin; Colvin, Geoff (6 September 2015). "Will robots create more jobs than they destroy?". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 16 June 2018. Retrieved 13 January 2018. 
       
        White Paper: On Artificial Intelligence – A European approach to excellence and trust (PDF). Brussels: European Commission. 2020. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 February 2020. Retrieved 20 February 2020. 
       
        Anderson, Michael; Anderson, Susan Leigh (2011). Machine Ethics. Cambridge University Press. 
       
        "Machine Ethics". aaai.org. Archived from the original on 29 November 2014. 
       
        Russell, Stuart (8 October 2019). Human Compatible: Artificial Intelligence and the Problem of Control. United States: Viking. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-525-55861-3. OCLC&nbsp;1083694322. 
       
        "AI set to exceed human brain power". CNN. 9 August 2006. Archived from the original on 19 February 2008. 
       
        "Robots could demand legal rights". BBC News. 21 December 2006. Archived from the original on 15 October 2019. Retrieved 3 February 2011. 
       
        "Kismet". MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Humanoid Robotics Group. Archived from the original on 17 October 2014. Retrieved 25 October 2014. 
       
        Smoliar, Stephen W.; Zhang, HongJiang (1994). "Content based video indexing and retrieval". IEEE Multimedia. 1 (2): 62–72. doi:10.1109/93.311653. S2CID&nbsp;32710913. 
       
        Neumann, Bernd; Möller, Ralf (January 2008). "On scene interpretation with description logics". Image and Vision Computing. 26 (1): 82–101. doi:10.1016/j.imavis.2007.08.013. 
       
        Kuperman, G. J.; Reichley, R. M.; Bailey, T. C. (1 July 2006). "Using Commercial Knowledge Bases for Clinical Decision Support: Opportunities, Hurdles, and Recommendations". Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association. 13 (4): 369–371. doi:10.1197/jamia.M2055. PMC&nbsp;1513681. PMID&nbsp;16622160. 
       
        McGarry, Ken (1 December 2005). "A survey of interestingness measures for knowledge discovery". The Knowledge Engineering Review. 20 (1): 39–61. doi:10.1017/S0269888905000408. S2CID&nbsp;14987656. 
       
        Bertini, M; Del Bimbo, A; Torniai, C (2006). "Automatic annotation and semantic retrieval of video sequences using multimedia ontologies". MM '06 Proceedings of the 14th ACM international conference on Multimedia. 14th ACM international conference on Multimedia. Santa Barbara: ACM. pp.&nbsp;679–682. 
       
        Kahneman, Daniel (25 October 2011). Thinking, Fast and Slow. Macmillan. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4299-6935-2. Retrieved 8 April 2012. 
       
        Turing, Alan (1948), "Machine Intelligence", in Copeland, B. Jack (ed.), The Essential Turing: The ideas that gave birth to the computer age, Oxford: Oxford University Press, p.&nbsp;412, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-825080-7 
       
        Domingos, Pedro (22 September 2015). The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World. Basic Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0465065707. 
       
        Minsky, Marvin (1986), The Society of Mind, Simon and Schuster 
       
        Pinker, Steven (4 September 2007) , The Language Instinct, Perennial Modern Classics, Harper, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-133646-1 
       
        Chalmers, David (1995). "Facing up to the problem of consciousness". Journal of Consciousness Studies. 2 (3): 200–219. Archived from the original on 8 March 2005. Retrieved 11 October 2018. 
       
        Roberts, Jacob (2016). "Thinking Machines: The Search for Artificial Intelligence". Distillations. Vol.&nbsp;2, no.&nbsp;2. pp.&nbsp;14–23. Archived from the original on 19 August 2018. Retrieved 20 March 2018. 
       
        Pennachin, C.; Goertzel, B. (2007). "Contemporary Approaches to Artificial General Intelligence". Artificial General Intelligence. Cognitive Technologies. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-68677-4_1. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-23733-4. 
       
        "Ask the AI experts: What's driving today's progress in AI?". McKinsey &amp; Company. Archived from the original on 13 April 2018. Retrieved 13 April 2018. 
       
        "Reshaping Business With Artificial Intelligence". MIT Sloan Management Review. Archived from the original on 19 May 2018. Retrieved 2 May 2018. 
       
        Lorica, Ben (18 December 2017). "The state of AI adoption". O'Reilly Media. Archived from the original on 2 May 2018. Retrieved 2 May 2018. 
       
        "AlphaGo – Google DeepMind". Archived from the original on 20 October 2021.
       
      
       
        Asada, M.; Hosoda, K.; Kuniyoshi, Y.; Ishiguro, H.; Inui, T.; Yoshikawa, Y.; Ogino, M.; Yoshida, C. (2009). "Cognitive developmental robotics: a survey". IEEE Transactions on Autonomous Mental Development. 1 (1): 12–34. doi:10.1109/tamd.2009.2021702. S2CID&nbsp;10168773. 
       
        Ashok83 (10 September 2019). "How AI Is Getting Groundbreaking Changes In Talent Management And HR Tech". Hackernoon. Archived from the original on 11 September 2019. Retrieved 14 February 2020. 
       
        Berlinski, David (2000). The Advent of the Algorithm. Harcourt Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-15-601391-8. OCLC&nbsp;46890682. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Brooks, Rodney (1990). "Elephants Don't Play Chess" (PDF). Robotics and Autonomous Systems. 6 (1–2): 3–15. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.588.7539. doi:10.1016/S0921-8890(05)80025-9. Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 August 2007. 
       
        Butler, Samuel (13 June 1863). "Darwin among the Machines". Letters to the Editor. The Press. Christchurch, New Zealand. Archived from the original on 19 September 2008. Retrieved 16 October 2014 – via Victoria University of Wellington. 
       
        Clark, Jack (1 July 2015). "Musk-Backed Group Probes Risks Behind Artificial Intelligence". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on 30 October 2015. Retrieved 30 October 2015. 
       
        Clark, Jack (8 December 2015). "Why 2015 Was a Breakthrough Year in Artificial Intelligence". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on 23 November 2016. Retrieved 23 November 2016. 
       
        Dennett, Daniel (1991). Consciousness Explained. The Penguin Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7139-9037-9. 
       
        Dreyfus, Hubert (1972). What Computers Can't Do. New York: MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-011082-6. 
       
        Dreyfus, Hubert; Dreyfus, Stuart (1986). Mind over Machine: The Power of Human Intuition and Expertise in the Era of the Computer. Oxford, UK: Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-02-908060-3. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Dyson, George (1998). Darwin among the Machines. Allan Lane Science. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7382-0030-9. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Edelson, Edward (1991). The Nervous System. New York: Chelsea House. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7910-0464-7. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
       
        Fearn, Nicholas (2007). The Latest Answers to the Oldest Questions: A Philosophical Adventure with the World's Greatest Thinkers. New York: Grove Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8021-1839-4. 
       
        Haugeland, John (1985). Artificial Intelligence: The Very Idea. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-08153-5. 
       
        Hawkins, Jeff; Blakeslee, Sandra (2005). On Intelligence. New York: Owl Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8050-7853-4. 
       
        Henderson, Mark (24 April 2007). "Human rights for robots? We're getting carried away". The Times Online. London. Archived from the original on 31 May 2014. Retrieved 31 May 2014. 
       
        Kahneman, Daniel; Slovic, D.; Tversky, Amos (1982). Judgment under uncertainty: Heuristics and biases. Science. Vol.&nbsp;185. New York: Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;1124–1131. doi:10.1126/science.185.4157.1124. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-28414-1. PMID&nbsp;17835457. S2CID&nbsp;143452957. 
       
        Katz, Yarden (1 November 2012). "Noam Chomsky on Where Artificial Intelligence Went Wrong". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 28 February 2019. Retrieved 26 October 2014. 
       
        Kurzweil, Ray (2005). The Singularity is Near. Penguin Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-670-03384-3. 
       
        Langley, Pat (2011). "The changing science of machine learning". Machine Learning. 82 (3): 275–279. doi:10.1007/s10994-011-5242-y. 
       
        Legg, Shane; Hutter, Marcus (15 June 2007). A Collection of Definitions of Intelligence (Technical report). IDSIA. arXiv:0706.3639. Bibcode:2007arXiv0706.3639L. 07-07. 
       
        Lenat, Douglas; Guha, R. V. (1989). Building Large Knowledge-Based Systems. Addison-Wesley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-201-51752-1. 
       
        Lighthill, James (1973). "Artificial Intelligence: A General Survey". Artificial Intelligence: a paper symposium. Science Research Council. 
       
        Lombardo, P; Boehm, I; Nairz, K (2020). "RadioComics – Santa Claus and the future of radiology". Eur J Radiol. 122 (1): 108771. doi:10.1016/j.ejrad.2019.108771. PMID&nbsp;31835078. 
       
        Lungarella, M.; Metta, G.; Pfeifer, R.; Sandini, G. (2003). "Developmental robotics: a survey". Connection Science. 15 (4): 151–190. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.83.7615. doi:10.1080/09540090310001655110. S2CID&nbsp;1452734. 
       
        Maker, Meg Houston (2006). "AI@50: AI Past, Present, Future". Dartmouth College. Archived from the original on 3 January 2007. Retrieved 16 October 2008. 
       
        McCarthy, John; Minsky, Marvin; Rochester, Nathan; Shannon, Claude (1955). "A Proposal for the Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence". Archived from the original on 26 August 2007. Retrieved 30 August 2007. 
       
        Minsky, Marvin (1967). Computation: Finite and Infinite Machines. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-165449-5. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
       
        Moravec, Hans (1988). Mind Children. Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-674-57616-2. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
       
        NRC (United States National Research Council) (1999). "Developments in Artificial Intelligence". Funding a Revolution: Government Support for Computing Research. National Academy Press. 
       
        Newell, Allen; Simon, H. A. (1976). "Computer Science as Empirical Inquiry: Symbols and Search". Communications of the ACM. 19 (3): 113–126. doi:10.1145/360018.360022.. 
       
        Nilsson, Nils (1983). "Artificial Intelligence Prepares for 2001" (PDF). AI Magazine. 1 (1). Archived (PDF) from the original on 17 August 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. Presidential Address to the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. 
       
        Oudeyer, P-Y. (2010). "On the impact of robotics in behavioral and cognitive sciences: from insect navigation to human cognitive development" (PDF). IEEE Transactions on Autonomous Mental Development. 2 (1): 2–16. doi:10.1109/tamd.2009.2039057. S2CID&nbsp;6362217. Archived (PDF) from the original on 3 October 2018. Retrieved 4 June 2013. 
       
        Schank, Roger C. (1991). "Where's the AI". AI magazine. Vol.&nbsp;12, no.&nbsp;4. 
       
        Searle, John (1980). "Minds, Brains and Programs" (PDF). Behavioral and Brain Sciences. 3 (3): 417–457. doi:10.1017/S0140525X00005756. Archived (PDF) from the original on 17 March 2019. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Searle, John (1999). Mind, language and society. New York: Basic Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-465-04521-1. OCLC&nbsp;231867665. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Simon, H. A. (1965). The Shape of Automation for Men and Management. New York: Harper &amp; Row. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
       
        Solomonoff, Ray (1956). An Inductive Inference Machine (PDF). Dartmouth Summer Research Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Archived (PDF) from the original on 26 April 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2011 – via std.com, pdf scanned copy of the original. Later published as
        Solomonoff, Ray (1957). "An Inductive Inference Machine". IRE Convention Record. Vol.&nbsp;Section on Information Theory, part 2. pp.&nbsp;56–62. 
       
        Spadafora, Anthony (21 October 2016). "Stephen Hawking believes AI could be mankind's last accomplishment". BetaNews. Archived from the original on 28 August 2017. 
       
        Tao, Jianhua; Tan, Tieniu (2005). Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction. Affective Computing: A Review. Vol.&nbsp;LNCS 3784. Springer. pp.&nbsp;981–995. doi:10.1007/11573548. 
       
        Tecuci, Gheorghe (March–April 2012). "Artificial Intelligence". Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Computational Statistics. 4 (2): 168–180. doi:10.1002/wics.200. 
       
        Thro, Ellen (1993). Robotics: The Marriage of Computers and Machines. New York: Facts on File. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8160-2628-9. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
       
        Turing, Alan (October 1950), "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", Mind, LIX (236): 433–460, doi:10.1093/mind/LIX.236.433, ISSN&nbsp;0026-4423. 
       
        Vinge, Vernor (1993). "The Coming Technological Singularity: How to Survive in the Post-Human Era". Vision 21: Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering in the Era of Cyberspace: 11. Bibcode:1993vise.nasa...11V. Archived from the original on 1 January 2007. Retrieved 14 November 2011. 
       
        Wason, P. C.; Shapiro, D. (1966). "Reasoning". In Foss, B. M. (ed.). New horizons in psychology. Harmondsworth: Penguin. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019. 
       
        Weng, J.; McClelland; Pentland, A.; Sporns, O.; Stockman, I.; Sur, M.; Thelen, E. (2001). "Autonomous mental development by robots and animals" (PDF). Science. 291 (5504): 599–600. doi:10.1126/science.291.5504.599. PMID&nbsp;11229402. S2CID&nbsp;54131797. Archived (PDF) from the original on 4 September 2013. Retrieved 4 June 2013 – via msu.edu.
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        DH Author, "Why Are There Still So Many Jobs? The History and Future of Workplace Automation" (2015) 29(3) Journal of Economic Perspectives 3. 
        Boden, Margaret, Mind As Machine, Oxford University Press, 2006. 
        Cukier, Kenneth, "Ready for Robots? How to Think about the Future of AI", Foreign Affairs, vol. 98, no. 4 (July/August 2019), pp.&nbsp;192–98. George Dyson, historian of computing, writes (in what might be called "Dyson's Law") that "Any system simple enough to be understandable will not be complicated enough to behave intelligently, while any system complicated enough to behave intelligently will be too complicated to understand." (p.&nbsp;197.) Computer scientist Alex Pentland writes: "Current AI machine-learning algorithms are, at their core, dead simple stupid. They work, but they work by brute force." (p.&nbsp;198.) 
        Domingos, Pedro, "Our Digital Doubles: AI will serve our species, not control it", Scientific American, vol. 319, no. 3 (September 2018), pp.&nbsp;88–93. 
        Gopnik, Alison, "Making AI More Human: Artificial intelligence has staged a revival by starting to incorporate what we know about how children learn", Scientific American, vol. 316, no. 6 (June 2017), pp.&nbsp;60–65. 
        Halpern, Sue, "The Human Costs of AI" (review of Kate Crawford, Atlas of AI: Power, Politics, and the Planetary Costs of Artificial Intelligence, Yale University Press, 2021, 327 pp.; Simon Chesterman, We, the Robots?: Regulating Artificial Intelligence and the Limits of the Law, Cambridge University Press, 2021, 289 pp.; Keven Roose, Futureproof: 9 Rules for Humans in the Age of Automation, Random House, 217 pp.; Erik J. Larson, The Myth of Artificial Intelligence: Why Computers Can't Think the Way We Do, Belknap Press / Harvard University Press, 312 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol. LXVIII, no. 16 (21 October 2021), pp.&nbsp;29–31. "AI training models can replicate entrenched social and cultural biases.  Machines only know what they know from the data they have been given.  rtificial general intelligence–machine-based intelligence that matches our own–is beyond the capacity of algorithmic machine learning... 'Your brain is one piece in a broader system which includes your body, your environment, other humans, and culture as a whole.' ven machines that master the tasks they are trained to perform can't jump domains. AIVA, for example, can't drive a car even though it can write music (and wouldn't even be able to do that without Bach and Beethoven )." (p.&nbsp;31.) 
        Johnston, John (2008) The Allure of Machinic Life: Cybernetics, Artificial Life, and the New AI, MIT Press. 
        Koch, Christof, "Proust among the Machines", Scientific American, vol. 321, no. 6 (December 2019), pp.&nbsp;46–49. Christof Koch doubts the possibility of "intelligent" machines attaining consciousness, because "ven the most sophisticated brain simulations are unlikely to produce conscious feelings." (p.&nbsp;48.) According to Koch, "Whether machines can become sentient  for ethical reasons. If computers experience life through their own senses, they cease to be purely a means to an end determined by their usefulness to... humans. Per GNW , they turn from mere objects into subjects... with a point of view.... Once computers' cognitive abilities rival those of humanity, their impulse to push for legal and political rights will become irresistible—the right not to be deleted, not to have their memories wiped clean, not to suffer pain and degradation. The alternative, embodied by IIT , is that computers will remain only supersophisticated machinery, ghostlike empty shells, devoid of what we value most: the feeling of life itself." (p.&nbsp;49.) 
        Marcus, Gary, "Am I Human?: Researchers need new ways to distinguish artificial intelligence from the natural kind", Scientific American, vol. 316, no. 3 (March 2017), pp.&nbsp;58–63. A stumbling block to AI has been an incapacity for reliable disambiguation. An example is the "pronoun disambiguation problem": a machine has no way of determining to whom or what a pronoun in a sentence refers. (p.&nbsp;61.) 
        E McGaughey, 'Will Robots Automate Your Job Away? Full Employment, Basic Income, and Economic Democracy' (2018) SSRN, part 2(3) Archived 24 May 2018 at the Wayback Machine. 
        George Musser, "Artificial Imagination: How machines could learn creativity and common sense, among other human qualities", Scientific American, vol. 320, no. 5 (May 2019), pp.&nbsp;58–63. 
        Myers, Courtney Boyd ed. (2009). "The AI Report" Archived 29 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Forbes June 2009 
        
         Raphael, Bertram (1976). The Thinking Computer. W.H. Freeman and Co. ISBN&nbsp;978-0716707233. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020. 
        Scharre, Paul, "Killer Apps: The Real Dangers of an AI Arms Race", Foreign Affairs, vol. 98, no. 3 (May/June 2019), pp.&nbsp;135–44. "Today's AI technologies are powerful but unreliable. Rules-based systems cannot deal with circumstances their programmers did not anticipate. Learning systems are limited by the data on which they were trained. AI failures have already led to tragedy. Advanced autopilot features in cars, although they perform well in some circumstances, have driven cars without warning into trucks, concrete barriers, and parked cars. In the wrong situation, AI systems go from supersmart to superdumb in an instant. When an enemy is trying to manipulate and hack an AI system, the risks are even greater." (p.&nbsp;140.) 
        
         Serenko, Alexander (2010). "The development of an AI journal ranking based on the revealed preference approach" (PDF). Journal of Informetrics. 4 (4): 447–59. doi:10.1016/j.joi.2010.04.001. Archived (PDF) from the original on 4 October 2013. Retrieved 24 August 2013. 
        
         Serenko, Alexander; Michael Dohan (2011). "Comparing the expert survey and citation impact journal ranking methods: Example from the field of Artificial Intelligence" (PDF). Journal of Informetrics. 5 (4): 629–49. doi:10.1016/j.joi.2011.06.002. Archived (PDF) from the original on 4 October 2013. Retrieved 12 September 2013. 
        
         Tom Simonite (29 December 2014). "2014 in Computing: Breakthroughs in Artificial Intelligence". MIT Technology Review. 
        Sun, R. &amp; Bookman, L. (eds.), Computational Architectures: Integrating Neural and Symbolic Processes. Kluwer Academic Publishers, Needham, MA. 1994. 
        Taylor, Paul, "Insanely Complicated, Hopelessly Inadequate" (review of Brian Cantwell Smith, The Promise of Artificial Intelligence: Reckoning and Judgment, MIT, 2019, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0262043045, 157 pp.; Gary Marcus and Ernest Davis, Rebooting AI: Building Artificial Intelligence We Can Trust, Ballantine, 2019, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-1524748258, 304 pp.; Judea Pearl and Dana Mackenzie, The Book of Why: The New Science of Cause and Effect, Penguin, 2019, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-0141982410, 418 pp.), London Review of Books, vol. 43, no. 2 (21 January 2021), pp.&nbsp;37–39. Paul Taylor writes (p.&nbsp;39): "Perhaps there is a limit to what a computer can do without knowing that it is manipulating imperfect representations of an external reality." 
        Tooze, Adam, "Democracy and Its Discontents", The New York Review of Books, vol. LXVI, no. 10 (6 June 2019), pp.&nbsp;52–53, 56–57. "Democracy has no clear answer for the mindless operation of bureaucratic and technological power. We may indeed be witnessing its extension in the form of artificial intelligence and robotics. Likewise, after decades of dire warning, the environmental problem remains fundamentally unaddressed.... Bureaucratic overreach and environmental catastrophe are precisely the kinds of slow-moving existential challenges that democracies deal with very badly.... Finally, there is the threat du jour: corporations and the technologies they promote." (pp.&nbsp;56–57.)
        
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Artificial intelligenceat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
        Data from Wikidata
       
       
      
       
        "Artificial Intelligence". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Thomason, Richmond. "Logic and Artificial Intelligence". In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       Artificial Intelligence. BBC Radio 4 discussion with John Agar, Alison Adam &amp; Igor Aleksander (In Our Time, Dec. 8, 2005).
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Articles related to Artificial intelligence
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  John McCarthy
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Circumscription 
                   Dartmouth workshop 
                   Frame problem 
                   Garbage collection 
                   Lisp 
                   McCarthy Formalism 
                   McCarthy 91 function 
                   Situation calculus 
                   Space fountain
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of mind
                 
               
               
                Philosophers
                
                  
                  
                   Anscombe 
                   Austin 
                   Aquinas 
                   Bain 
                   Bergson 
                   Bhattacharya 
                   Block 
                   Brentano 
                   Broad 
                   Burge 
                   Chalmers 
                   Churchland 
                   Dennett 
                   Dharmakirti 
                   Davidson 
                   Descartes 
                   Goldman 
                   Heidegger 
                   Husserl 
                   Feyerabend 
                   Fodor 
                   James 
                   Kierkegaard 
                   Leibniz 
                   Lewis 
                   McDowell 
                   Merleau-Ponty 
                   Minsky 
                   Moore 
                   Nagel 
                   Parfit 
                   Putnam 
                   Popper 
                   Rorty 
                   Ryle 
                   Searle 
                   Spinoza 
                   Turing 
                   Vasubandhu 
                   Wittgenstein 
                   Zhuangzi 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Behaviorism 
                   Biological naturalism 
                   Dualism 
                   Eliminative materialism 
                   Emergent materialism 
                   Epiphenomenalism 
                   Functionalism 
                   Idealism 
                   Interactionism 
                   Materialism 
                   Monism 
                   Naïve realism 
                    
                     Neurophenomenology
                     
                   Neutral monism 
                   Occasionalism 
                   Parallelism 
                   Phenomenalism 
                   Phenomenology 
                   Physicalism 
                    
                     identity theory
                     
                   Property dualism 
                   Representational 
                   Solipsism 
                   Substance dualism
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Abstract object 
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Chinese room 
                   Cognition 
                   Cognitive closure 
                   Concept 
                   Concept and object 
                   Consciousness 
                   Hard problem of consciousness 
                   Hypostatic abstraction 
                   Idea 
                   Identity 
                   Ingenuity 
                   Intelligence 
                   Intentionality 
                   Introspection 
                   Intuition 
                   Language of thought 
                   Materialism 
                   Mental event 
                   Mental image 
                   Mental process 
                   Mental property 
                   Mental representation 
                   Mind 
                   Mind–body problem 
                   New mysterianism 
                   Pain 
                   Problem of other minds 
                   Propositional attitude 
                   Qualia 
                   Tabula rasa 
                   Understanding 
                   Zombie 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related
                
                  
                  
                   Metaphysics 
                   Philosophy of artificial intelligence&nbsp;/ information&nbsp;/ perception&nbsp;/ self
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   Philosophers category 
                   Project 
                   Task Force
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of science
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Concepts
                    
                      
                      
                       Analysis 
                       Analytic–synthetic distinction 
                       A priori and a posteriori 
                       Causality 
                       Commensurability 
                       Consilience 
                       Construct 
                       Creative synthesis 
                       Demarcation problem 
                       Empirical evidence 
                       Explanatory power 
                       Fact 
                       Falsifiability 
                       Feminist method 
                       Functional contextualism
                       
                      
                       Ignoramus et ignorabimus 
                       Inductive reasoning 
                       Intertheoretic reduction 
                       Inquiry 
                       Nature 
                       Objectivity 
                       Observation 
                       Paradigm 
                       Problem of induction 
                       Scientific law 
                       Scientific method 
                       Scientific pluralism 
                       Scientific revolution 
                       Scientific theory 
                       Testability 
                       Theory choice 
                       Theory-ladenness 
                       Underdetermination 
                       Unity of science
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Metatheoryof science
                    
                      
                      
                       Coherentism 
                       Confirmation holism 
                       Constructive empiricism 
                       Constructive realism 
                       Constructivist epistemology 
                       Contextualism 
                       Conventionalism 
                       Deductive-nomological model 
                       Hypothetico-deductive model 
                       Inductionism 
                       Epistemological anarchism 
                       Evolutionism 
                       Fallibilism 
                       Foundationalism 
                       Instrumentalism 
                       Pragmatism 
                       Model-dependent realism 
                       Naturalism 
                       Physicalism 
                       Positivism&nbsp;/ Reductionism&nbsp;/ Determinism 
                       Rationalism&nbsp;/ Empiricism 
                       Received view&nbsp;/ Semantic view of theories 
                       Scientific realism&nbsp;/ Anti-realism 
                       Scientific essentialism 
                       Scientific formalism 
                       Scientific skepticism 
                       Scientism 
                       Structuralism 
                       Uniformitarianism 
                       Vitalism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Philosophy of
                    
                      
                      
                       Physics 
                        
                         thermal and statistical 
                         Motion
                         
                       Chemistry 
                       Biology 
                       Geography 
                       Social science 
                       Technology 
                        
                         Engineering 
                         Artificial intelligence 
                         Computer science
                         
                       Information 
                       Mind 
                       Psychiatry 
                       Psychology 
                       Perception 
                       Space and time
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Related topics
                    
                      
                      
                       Alchemy 
                       Criticism of science 
                       Descriptive science 
                       Epistemology 
                       Faith and rationality 
                       Hard and soft science 
                       History and philosophy of science 
                       History of science 
                       History of evolutionary thought 
                       Logic 
                       Metaphysics 
                       Normative science 
                       Pseudoscience 
                       Relationship between religion and science 
                       Rhetoric of science 
                       Science studies 
                       Sociology of scientific knowledge 
                       Sociology of scientific ignorance
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Philosophers of science by era
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        Ancient
                        
                          
                          
                           Plato 
                           Aristotle 
                           Stoicism 
                           Epicureans
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Medieval
                        
                          
                          
                           Averroes 
                           Avicenna 
                           Roger Bacon 
                           William of Ockham 
                           Hugh of Saint Victor 
                           Dominicus Gundissalinus 
                           Robert Kilwardby
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Early modern
                        
                          
                          
                           Francis Bacon 
                           Thomas Hobbes 
                           René Descartes 
                           Galileo Galilei 
                           Pierre Gassendi 
                           Isaac Newton 
                           David Hume
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Late modern
                        
                          
                          
                           Immanuel Kant 
                           Friedrich Schelling 
                           William Whewell 
                           Auguste Comte 
                           John Stuart Mill 
                           Herbert Spencer 
                           Wilhelm Wundt 
                           Charles Sanders Peirce 
                           Wilhelm Windelband 
                           Henri Poincaré 
                           Pierre Duhem 
                           Rudolf Steiner 
                           Karl Pearson
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Contemporary
                        
                          
                          
                           Alfred North Whitehead 
                           Bertrand Russell 
                           Albert Einstein 
                           Otto Neurath 
                           C. D. Broad 
                           Michael Polanyi 
                           Hans Reichenbach 
                           Rudolf Carnap 
                           Karl Popper 
                           Carl Gustav Hempel 
                           W. V. O. Quine 
                           Thomas Kuhn 
                           Imre Lakatos 
                           Paul Feyerabend 
                           Jürgen Habermas 
                           Ian Hacking 
                           Bas van Fraassen 
                           Larry Laudan 
                           Daniel Dennett
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   &nbsp;Philosophy portal 
                   &nbsp;Science portal
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Evolutionary computation
                 
               
               
                Main Topics
                
                  
                  
                   Convergence (evolutionary computing) 
                   Evolutionary algorithm 
                   Evolutionary data mining 
                   Evolutionary multimodal optimization 
                   Human-based evolutionary computation 
                   Interactive evolutionary computation
                   
                 
               
               
                Algorithms
                
                  
                  
                   Cellular evolutionary algorithm 
                   Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) 
                   Differential evolution 
                   Evolutionary programming 
                   Genetic algorithm 
                   Genetic programming 
                   Gene expression programming 
                   Evolution strategy 
                   Natural evolution strategy 
                   Neuroevolution 
                   Learning classifier system
                   
                 
               
               
                Related techniques
                
                  
                  
                   Swarm intelligence 
                   Ant colony optimization 
                   Bees algorithm 
                   Cuckoo search 
                   Particle swarm optimization 
                   Bacterial Colony Optimization
                   
                 
               
               
                Metaheuristic methods
                
                  
                  
                   Firefly algorithm 
                   Harmony search 
                   Gaussian adaptation 
                   Memetic algorithm
                   
                 
               
               
                Related topics
                
                  
                  
                   Artificial development 
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Artificial life 
                   Digital organism 
                   Evolutionary robotics 
                   Fitness function 
                   Fitness landscape 
                   Fitness approximation 
                   Genetic operators 
                   Interactive evolutionary computation 
                   No free lunch in search and optimization 
                   Machine learning 
                   Mating pool 
                   Program synthesis
                   
                 
               
               
                Journals
                
                  
                  
                   Evolutionary Computation (journal)
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Differentiable computing
                 
               
               
                General
                
                  
                  
                   Differentiable programming 
                   Neural Turing machine 
                   Differentiable neural computer 
                   Automatic differentiation 
                   Neuromorphic engineering 
                   Cable theory 
                   Pattern recognition 
                   Computational learning theory 
                   Tensor calculus
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Gradient descent 
                    
                     SGD
                     
                   Clustering 
                   Regression 
                    
                     Overfitting
                     
                   Adversary 
                   Attention 
                   Convolution 
                   Loss functions 
                   Backpropagation 
                   Normalization 
                   Activation 
                    
                     Softmax 
                     Sigmoid 
                     Rectifier
                     
                   Regularization 
                   Datasets 
                    
                     Augmentation
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Programming languages
                
                  
                  
                   Python 
                   Julia
                   
                 
               
               
                Application
                
                  
                  
                   Machine learning 
                   Artificial neural network 
                    
                     Deep learning
                     
                   Scientific computing 
                   Artificial Intelligence
                   
                 
               
               
                Hardware
                
                  
                  
                   IPU 
                   TPU 
                   VPU 
                   Memristor 
                   SpiNNaker
                   
                 
               
               
                Software library
                
                  
                  
                   TensorFlow 
                   PyTorch 
                   Keras 
                   Theano
                   
                 
               
               
                Implementation
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Audio-visual
                    
                      
                      
                       AlexNet 
                       WaveNet 
                       Human image synthesis 
                       HWR 
                       OCR 
                       Speech synthesis 
                       Speech recognition 
                       Facial recognition 
                       AlphaFold 
                       DALL-E
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Verbal
                    
                      
                      
                       Word2vec 
                       Transformer 
                       BERT 
                       NMT 
                       Project Debater 
                       Watson 
                       GPT-2 
                       GPT-3
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Decisional
                    
                      
                      
                       AlphaGo 
                       AlphaZero 
                       Q-learning 
                       SARSA 
                       OpenAI Five 
                       Self-driving car 
                       MuZero 
                       Action selection 
                       Robot control
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                People
                
                  
                  
                   Alex Graves 
                   Ian Goodfellow 
                   Yoshua Bengio 
                   Geoffrey Hinton 
                   Yann LeCun 
                   Andrew Ng 
                   Demis Hassabis 
                   David Silver 
                   Fei-Fei Li
                   
                 
               
               
                Organizations
                
                  
                  
                   DeepMind 
                   OpenAI 
                   MIT CSAIL 
                   Mila 
                   Google Brain 
                   FAIR
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Portals 
                    
                     Computer programming 
                     Technology
                     
                    Category 
                    
                     Artificial neural networks 
                     Machine learning
                    
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Computable knowledge
                 
               
               
                Topics andconcepts
                
                  
                  
                   Alphabet of human thought 
                   Authority control 
                   Automated reasoning 
                   Commonsense knowledge 
                   Commonsense reasoning 
                   Computability 
                   Discovery system 
                   Formal system 
                   Inference engine 
                   Knowledge base 
                    
                     Personal knowledge base
                     
                   Knowledge-based systems 
                   Knowledge engineering 
                   Knowledge extraction 
                   Knowledge graph 
                   Knowledge representation 
                   Knowledge retrieval 
                   Library classification 
                   Logic programming 
                   Ontology 
                   Question answering 
                   Semantic reasoner
                   
                 
               
               
                Proposals andimplementations
                
                  
                  
                   Zairja 
                   Ars Magna&nbsp;(1300) 
                   An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language&nbsp;(1688) 
                   Calculus ratiocinator and characteristica universalis&nbsp;(1700) 
                   Dewey Decimal Classification&nbsp;(1876) 
                   Begriffsschrift&nbsp;(1879) 
                   Mundaneum&nbsp;(1910) 
                   Logical atomism&nbsp;(1918) 
                   Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus&nbsp;(1921) 
                   Hilbert's program&nbsp;(1920s) 
                   Incompleteness theorem&nbsp;(1931) 
                   World Brain&nbsp;(1938) 
                   Memex&nbsp;(1945) 
                   General Problem Solver&nbsp;(1959) 
                   Prolog&nbsp;(1972) 
                   Cyc&nbsp;(1984) 
                   Semantic Web&nbsp;(2001) 
                   Wikipedia&nbsp;(2001) 
                   Evi&nbsp;(2007) 
                   Wolfram Alpha&nbsp;(2009) 
                   Watson&nbsp;(2011) 
                   Siri&nbsp;(2011) 
                   Google Knowledge Graph&nbsp;(2012) 
                   Wikidata&nbsp;(2012) 
                   Cortana&nbsp;(2014) 
                   Viv&nbsp;(2016)
                   
                 
               
               
                In fiction
                
                  
                  
                   The Engine (Gulliver's Travels, 1726) 
                   Joe ("A Logic Named Joe", 1946) 
                   The Librarian (Snow Crash, 1992) 
                   Dr. Know (A.I. (film), 2001) 
                   Waterhouse (The Baroque Cycle, 2003)
                   
                  See also: Logic machines in fiction and List of fictional computers  
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Computer science
                 
               
               
                
                 
                  Note: This template roughly follows the 2012 ACM Computing Classification System.
                 
               
               
                Hardware
                
                  
                  
                   Printed circuit board 
                   Peripheral 
                   Integrated circuit 
                   Very Large Scale Integration 
                   Systems on Chip (SoCs) 
                   Energy consumption (Green computing) 
                   Electronic design automation 
                   Hardware acceleration
                   
                 
                
                 
                  
                 
               
               
                Computer systems organization
                
                  
                  
                   Computer architecture 
                   Embedded system 
                   Real-time computing 
                   Dependability
                   
                 
               
               
                Networks
                
                  
                  
                   Network architecture 
                   Network protocol 
                   Network components 
                   Network scheduler 
                   Network performance evaluation 
                   Network service
                   
                 
               
               
                Software organization
                
                  
                  
                   Interpreter 
                   Middleware 
                   Virtual machine 
                   Operating system 
                   Software quality
                   
                 
               
               
                Software notations and tools
                
                  
                  
                   Programming paradigm 
                   Programming language 
                   Compiler 
                   Domain-specific language 
                   Modeling language 
                   Software framework 
                   Integrated development environment 
                   Software configuration management 
                   Software library 
                   Software repository
                   
                 
               
               
                Software development
                
                  
                  
                   Control variable 
                   Software development process 
                   Requirements analysis 
                   Software design 
                   Software construction 
                   Software deployment 
                   Software maintenance 
                   Programming team 
                   Open-source model
                   
                 
               
               
                Theory of computation
                
                  
                  
                   Model of computation 
                   Formal language 
                   Automata theory 
                   Computability theory 
                   Computational complexity theory 
                   Logic 
                   Semantics
                   
                 
               
               
                Algorithms
                
                  
                  
                   Algorithm design 
                   Analysis of algorithms 
                   Algorithmic efficiency 
                   Randomized algorithm 
                   Computational geometry
                   
                 
               
               
                Mathematics of computing
                
                  
                  
                   Discrete mathematics 
                   Probability 
                   Statistics 
                   Mathematical software 
                   Information theory 
                   Mathematical analysis 
                   Numerical analysis 
                   Theoretical computer science
                   
                 
               
               
                Information systems
                
                  
                  
                   Database management system 
                   Information storage systems 
                   Enterprise information system 
                   Social information systems 
                   Geographic information system 
                   Decision support system 
                   Process control system 
                   Multimedia information system 
                   Data mining 
                   Digital library 
                   Computing platform 
                   Digital marketing 
                   World Wide Web 
                   Information retrieval
                   
                 
               
               
                Security
                
                  
                  
                   Cryptography 
                   Formal methods 
                   Security services 
                   Intrusion detection system 
                   Hardware security 
                   Network security 
                   Information security 
                   Application security
                   
                 
               
               
                Human–computer interaction
                
                  
                  
                   Interaction design 
                   Social computing 
                   Ubiquitous computing 
                   Visualization 
                   Accessibility
                   
                 
               
               
                Concurrency
                
                  
                  
                   Concurrent computing 
                   Parallel computing 
                   Distributed computing 
                   Multithreading 
                   Multiprocessing
                   
                 
               
               
                Artificial intelligence
                
                  
                  
                   Natural language processing 
                   Knowledge representation and reasoning 
                   Computer vision 
                   Automated planning and scheduling 
                   Search methodology 
                   Control method 
                   Philosophy of artificial intelligence 
                   Distributed artificial intelligence
                   
                 
               
               
                Machine learning
                
                  
                  
                   Supervised learning 
                   Unsupervised learning 
                   Reinforcement learning 
                   Multi-task learning 
                   Cross-validation
                   
                 
               
               
                Graphics
                
                  
                  
                   Animation 
                   Rendering 
                   Image manipulation 
                   Graphics processing unit 
                   Mixed reality 
                   Virtual reality 
                   Image compression 
                   Solid modeling
                   
                 
               
               
                Applied computing
                
                  
                  
                   E-commerce 
                   Enterprise software 
                   Computational mathematics 
                   Computational physics 
                   Computational chemistry 
                   Computational biology 
                   Computational social science 
                   Computational engineering 
                   Computational healthcare 
                   Digital art 
                   Electronic publishing 
                   Cyberwarfare 
                   Electronic voting 
                   Video games 
                   Word processing 
                   Operations research 
                   Educational technology 
                   Document management
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Category 
                    Outline 
                   WikiProject 
                    Commons
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Emerging technologies
                 
               
               
                Fields
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Information andcommunications
                     
                    
                      
                      
                       Ambient intelligence 
                        
                         Internet of things
                         
                       Artificial intelligence 
                        
                         Applications of artificial intelligence 
                         Progress in artificial intelligence 
                         Machine translation 
                         Mobile translation 
                         Machine vision 
                         Semantic Web 
                         Speech recognition
                         
                       Atomtronics 
                       Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor 
                       Cybermethodology 
                       Fourth-generation optical discs 
                        
                         3D optical data storage 
                         Holographic data storage
                         
                       GPGPU 
                       Memory 
                        
                         CBRAM 
                         FRAM 
                         Millipede 
                         MRAM 
                         NRAM 
                         PRAM 
                         Racetrack memory 
                         RRAM 
                         SONOS 
                         ECRAM
                         
                       Optical computing 
                       RFID 
                        
                         Chipless RFID
                         
                       Software-defined radio 
                       Three-dimensional integrated circuit
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                Topics
                
                  
                  
                   Collingridge dilemma 
                   Differential technological development 
                   Disruptive innovation 
                   Ephemeralization 
                   Ethics 
                    
                     Bioethics 
                     Cyberethics 
                     Neuroethics 
                     Robot ethics
                     
                   Exploratory engineering 
                   Fictional technology 
                   Proactionary principle 
                   Technological change 
                    
                     Technological unemployment
                     
                   Technological convergence 
                   Technological evolution 
                   Technological paradigm 
                   Technology forecasting 
                    
                     Accelerating change 
                     Horizon scanning 
                     Moore's law 
                     Technological singularity 
                     Technology scouting
                     
                   Technology readiness level 
                   Technology roadmap 
                   Transhumanism
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Category 
                    List
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Robotics
                 
               
               
                Main articles
                
                  
                  
                   Outline 
                   Glossary 
                   Index 
                   History 
                   Geography 
                   Hall of Fame 
                   Ethics 
                   Laws 
                   Competitions 
                   AI competitions
                   
                 
                
                 
                  
                 
               
               
                Types
                
                  
                  
                   Anthropomorphic 
                    
                     Humanoid 
                     Android 
                     Cyborg
                     
                   Claytronics 
                   Companion 
                   Animatronic 
                    
                     Audio-Animatronics
                     
                   Industrial 
                   Articulated 
                    
                     arm
                     
                   Domestic 
                   Educational 
                   Entertainment 
                   Juggling 
                   Military 
                   Medical 
                   Service 
                   Disability 
                   Agricultural 
                   Food service 
                   Retail 
                   BEAM robotics 
                   Soft robotics
                   
                 
               
               
                Classifications
                
                  
                  
                   Biorobotics 
                   Unmanned vehicle 
                    
                     aerial 
                     ground
                     
                   Mobile robot 
                   Microbotics 
                   Nanorobotics 
                   Robotic spacecraft 
                    
                     Space probe
                     
                   Swarm 
                   Underwater 
                    
                     remotely-operated
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Locomotion
                
                  
                  
                   Tracks 
                   Walking 
                    
                     Hexapod
                     
                   Climbing 
                   Electric unicycle 
                   Robot navigation
                   
                 
               
               
                Research
                
                  
                  
                   Evolutionary 
                   Kits 
                   Simulator 
                   Suite 
                   Open-source 
                   Software 
                   Adaptable 
                   Developmental 
                   Paradigms 
                   Ubiquitous
                   
                 
               
               
                Related
                
                  
                  
                   Powered exoskeleton 
                   Technological unemployment 
                   Terrainability 
                   Fictional robots
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Category 
                    Outline
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Existential risk from artificial intelligence
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Accelerating change 
                   AI box 
                   AI takeover 
                   Control problem 
                   Existential risk from artificial general intelligence 
                   Friendly artificial intelligence 
                   Instrumental convergence 
                   Intelligence explosion 
                   Machine ethics 
                   Superintelligence 
                   Technological singularity
                   
                 
               
               
                Organizations
                
                  
                  
                   Allen Institute for AI 
                   Center for Applied Rationality 
                   Center for Human-Compatible Artificial Intelligence 
                   Centre for the Study of Existential Risk 
                   DeepMind 
                   Foundational Questions Institute 
                   Future of Humanity Institute 
                   Future of Life Institute 
                   Humanity+ 
                   Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies 
                   Leverhulme Centre for the Future of Intelligence 
                   Machine Intelligence Research Institute 
                   OpenAI
                   
                 
               
               
                People
                
                  
                  
                   Scott Alexander 
                   Nick Bostrom 
                   Eric Drexler 
                   Sam Harris 
                   Stephen Hawking 
                   Bill Hibbard 
                   Bill Joy 
                   Elon Musk 
                   Steve Omohundro 
                   Huw Price 
                   Martin Rees 
                   Stuart J. Russell 
                   Jaan Tallinn 
                   Max Tegmark 
                   Frank Wilczek 
                   Roman Yampolskiy 
                   Andrew Yang 
                   Eliezer Yudkowsky
                   
                 
               
               
                Other
                
                  
                  
                   Artificial intelligence as a global catastrophic risk 
                   Controversies and dangers of artificial general intelligence 
                   Ethics of artificial intelligence 
                   Suffering risks 
                   Human Compatible 
                   Open Letter on Artificial Intelligence 
                   Our Final Invention 
                   The Precipice 
                   Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies 
                   Do You Trust This Computer?
                   
                 
               
               
                
                 
                   Category
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Subfields of and cyberneticians involved in cybernetics
                 
               
               
                Subfields
                
                  
                  
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Biological cybernetics 
                   Biomedical cybernetics 
                   Biorobotics 
                   Biosemiotics 
                   Neurocybernetics 
                   Catastrophe theory 
                   Computational neuroscience 
                   Connectionism 
                   Control theory 
                   Cybernetics in the Soviet Union 
                   Decision theory 
                   Emergence 
                   Engineering cybernetics 
                   Homeostasis 
                   Information theory 
                   Management cybernetics 
                   Medical cybernetics 
                   Second-order cybernetics 
                   Semiotics 
                   Sociocybernetics 
                   Polycontexturality 
                   Synergetics
                   
                 
               
               
                Cyberneticians
                
                  
                  
                   Alexander Lerner 
                   Alexey Lyapunov 
                   Alfred Radcliffe-Brown 
                   Allenna Leonard 
                   Anthony Wilden 
                   Buckminster Fuller 
                   Charles François 
                   Genevieve Bell 
                   Margaret Boden 
                   Claude Bernard 
                   Cliff Joslyn 
                   Erich von Holst 
                   Ernst von Glasersfeld 
                   Francis Heylighen 
                   Francisco Varela 
                   Frederic Vester 
                   Charles Geoffrey Vickers 
                   Gordon Pask 
                   Gordon S. Brown 
                   Gregory Bateson 
                   Heinz von Foerster 
                   Humberto Maturana 
                   I. A. Richards 
                   Igor Aleksander 
                   Jacque Fresco 
                   Jakob von Uexküll 
                   Jason Jixuan Hu 
                   Jay Wright Forrester 
                   Jennifer Wilby 
                   John N. Warfield 
                   Kevin Warwick 
                   Ludwig von Bertalanffy 
                   Maleyka Abbaszadeh 
                   Manfred Clynes 
                   Margaret Mead 
                   Marian Mazur 
                   N. Katherine Hayles 
                   Natalia Bekhtereva 
                   Niklas Luhmann 
                   Norbert Wiener 
                   Pyotr Grigorenko 
                   Qian Xuesen 
                   Ranulph Glanville 
                   Robert Trappl 
                   Sergei P. Kurdyumov 
                   Anthony Stafford Beer 
                   Stuart Kauffman 
                   Stuart Umpleby 
                   Talcott Parsons 
                   Ulla Mitzdorf 
                   Valentin Turchin 
                   Valentin Braitenberg 
                   William Ross Ashby 
                   Walter Bradford Cannon 
                   Walter Pitts 
                   Warren McCulloch 
                   William Grey Walter
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Glossaries of science and engineering
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Aerospace engineering 
                   Agriculture 
                   Archaeology 
                   Architecture 
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Astronomy 
                   Biology 
                   Botany 
                   Calculus 
                   Chemistry 
                   Civil engineering 
                   Clinical research 
                   Computer hardware 
                   Computer science 
                   Ecology 
                   Economics 
                   Electrical and electronics engineering 
                   Engineering 
                    
                     A–L 
                     M–Z
                     
                   Entomology 
                   Environmental science 
                   Evolutionary biology 
                   Genetics 
                   Geography 
                   Geology 
                   Ichthyology 
                   Machine vision 
                   Mathematics 
                   Mechanical engineering 
                   Medicine 
                   Meteorology 
                   Nanotechnology 
                   Ornithology 
                   Physics 
                   Probability and statistics 
                   Psychiatry 
                   Robotics 
                   Scientific naming 
                   Structural engineering 
                   Virology
                   
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
       
      Sources 
      
       &nbsp;This article incorporates text from a free content work. Licensed under C-BY-SA 3.0 IGO Text taken from UNESCO Science Report: the Race Against Time for Smarter Development., Schneegans, S., T. Straza and J. Lewis (eds), UNESCO. 
        To learn how to add open license text to Wikipedia articles, please see this how-to page. For information on reusing text from Wikipedia, please see the terms of use.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Artificial_intelligence&amp;oldid=1069601384"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Artificial intelligence
       Cybernetics
       Formal sciences
       Computational neuroscience
       Emerging technologies
       Unsolved problems in computer science
       Computational fields of study
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Harv and Sfn no-target errors
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
       Use dmy dates from January 2018
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2021
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2021
       CS1 Finnish-language sources (fi)
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty
       CS1: long volume value
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Articles with Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy links
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Free-content attribution
       Free content from UNESCO
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Artificial_intelligence&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikinews
       Wikiquote
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       العربية
       Aragonés
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Avañe'ẽ
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Furlan
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       贛語
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Interlingue
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Limburgs
       La .lojban.
       Magyar
       Madhurâ
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Patois
       Polski
       Português
       Qırımtatarca
       Ripoarisch
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Scots
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Українська
       اردو
       ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 February 2022, at 04:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
