
 
  
   
  Productivity - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Productivity 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Average measure of the efficiency of production
       
      
      
       This article is about the economic and business concept. For other uses, see Productivity (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Economics
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches and classifications
           
            
            
             Schools of economics 
             Mainstream economics 
             Heterodox economics 
             Economic methodology 
             Economic theory 
             Political economy 
             Microeconomics 
             Macroeconomics 
             International economics 
             Applied economics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Econometrics 
             JEL classification codes
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts, theory and techniques
           
            
            
             Economic systems 
             Economic growth 
             Market 
             National accounting 
             Experimental economics 
             Computational economics 
             Game theory 
             Operations research 
             Middle income trap 
             Industrial complex
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By application
           
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Behavioral 
             Business 
             Cultural 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Digitization 
             Ecological 
             Economic geography 
             Economic history 
             Economic planning 
             Economic policy 
             Economic sociology 
             Economic statistics 
             Education 
             Engineering 
             Environmental 
             Evolutionary 
             Expeditionary 
             Feminist 
             Financial 
             Happiness economics 
             Health 
             Humanistic economics 
             Industrial organization 
             Information 
             Institutional 
             Knowledge 
             Labour 
             Law 
             Managerial 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Organizational 
             Personnel 
             Public economics 
             Public&nbsp;/ Social choice 
             Regional 
             Rural 
             Service 
             Socioeconomics 
             Solidarity economy 
             Urban 
             Welfare 
             Welfare economics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable economists
           
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             John Stuart Mill 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Irving Fisher 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             John Hicks 
             Wassily Leontief 
             Paul Samuelson 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Critique of economy
           
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Assume a can opener
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable critics of economy
           
            
            
             Karl Marx 
             John Ruskin 
             Jean Baudrillard 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Glossary 
             Economists 
             Publications&nbsp;(journals)
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and Economics portal 
           &nbsp;Money portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Productivity is the efficiency of production of goods or services expressed by some measure. Measurements of productivity are often expressed as a ratio of an aggregate output to a single input or an aggregate input used in a production process, i.e. output per unit of input, typically over a specific period of time. The most common example is the (aggregate) labour productivity measure, e.g., such as GDP per worker. There are many different definitions of productivity (including those that are not defined as ratios of output to input) and the choice among them depends on the purpose of the productivity measurement and/or data availability. The key source of difference between various productivity measures is also usually related (directly or indirectly) to how the outputs and the inputs are aggregated into scalars to obtain such a ratio-type measure of productivity. Types of production are mass production and batch production. 
      Productivity is a crucial factor in the production performance of firms and nations. Increasing national productivity can raise living standards because more real income improves people's ability to purchase goods and services, enjoy leisure, improve housing and education and contribute to social and environmental programs. Productivity growth can also help businesses to be more profitable.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Partial productivity 
          
          1.1 Labour productivity 
           
        2 Multi-factor productivity 
          
          2.1 Individual and Team Productivity 
           
        3 Total productivity 
        4 Benefits of productivity growth 
        5 Drivers of productivity growth 
        6 Individual and team productivity 
          
          6.1 Detrimental impact of bullying, incivility, toxicity and psychopathy 
           
        7 Business productivity 
        8 Productivity paradox 
        9 National productivity 
        10 See also 
        11 References 
          
          11.1 Citations 
          11.2 Sources 
           
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
          
          13.1 Handbooks 
           
        
       
      Partial productivity 
      
      
       Main article: Partial productivity
       
      Productivity measures that use one class of inputs or factors, but not multiple factors, are called partial productivities. In practice, measurement in production means measures of partial productivity. Interpreted correctly, these components are indicative of productivity development, and approximate the efficiency with which inputs are used in an economy to produce goods and services. However, productivity is only measured partially&nbsp;– or approximately. In a way, the measurements are defective because they do not measure everything, but it is possible to interpret correctly the results of partial productivity and to benefit from them in practical situations. At the company level, typical partial productivity measures are such things as worker hours, materials or energy used per unit of production. 
      Before the widespread use of computer networks, partial productivity was tracked in tabular form and with hand-drawn graphs. Tabulating machines for data processing began being widely used in the 1920s and 1930s and remained in use until mainframe computers became widespread in the late 1960s through the 1970s. By the late 1970s inexpensive computers allowed industrial operations to perform process control and track productivity. Today data collection is largely computerized and almost any variable can be viewed graphically in real time or retrieved for selected time periods.  
      Labour productivity 
      
      
       See also: Labour productivity and List of countries by labour productivity
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Labour productivity levels in 2012 in Europe. OECD
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Comparison of average labour productivity levels between the OECD member states. Productivity is measured as GDP per hour worked. Blue bars = higher than OECD-average productivity. Yellow bars = lower than average.
        
       
       
      In macroeconomics, a common partial productivity measure is labour productivity. Labour productivity is a revealing indicator of several economic indicators as it offers a dynamic measure of economic growth, competitiveness, and living standards within an economy. It is the measure of labour productivity (and all that this measure takes into account) which helps explain the principal economic foundations that are necessary for both economic growth and social development. In general labour productivity is equal to the ratio between a measure of output volume (gross domestic product or gross value added) and a measure of input use (the total number of hours worked or total employment).  
      
       
        
            
             
              
               
               
                labour productivity
                
               
              
               =
               
               
                
                
                 output volume
                 
                
                 labor input use
                 
                
               
              
             
            
             }=}}}}
             
            
          
       
       
      The output measure is typically net output, more specifically the value added by the process under consideration, i.e. the value of outputs minus the value of intermediate inputs. This is done in order to avoid double-counting when an output of one firm is used as an input by another in the same measurement. In macroeconomics the most well-known and used measure of value-added is the Gross Domestic Product or GDP. Increases in it are widely used as a measure of the economic growth of nations and industries. GDP is the income available for paying capital costs, labor compensation, taxes and profits.(OECD 2008,11) Some economists instead use gross value added (GVA); there is normally a strong correlation between GDP and GVA. (Freeman 2008,5) 
      The measure of input use reflects the time, effort and skills of the workforce. The denominator of the ratio of labour productivity, the input measure is the most important factor that influences the measure of labour productivity. Labour input is measured either by the total number of hours worked of all persons employed or total employment (head count). (Freeman 2008,5) There are both advantages and disadvantages associated with the different input measures that are used in the calculation of labour productivity. It is generally accepted that the total number of hours worked is the most appropriate measure of labour input because a simple headcount of employed persons can hide changes in average hours worked and has difficulties accounting for variations in work such as a part-time contract, leave of absence, overtime, or shifts in normal hours. However, the quality of hours-worked estimates is not always clear. In particular, statistical establishment and household surveys are difficult to use because of their varying quality of hours-worked estimates and their varying degree of international comparability. 
      GDP per capita is a rough measure of average living standards or economic well-being and is one of the core indicators of economic performance. (OECD 2008, 14) GDP is, for this purpose, only a very rough measure. Maximizing GDP, in principle, also allows maximizing capital usage. For this reason, GDP is systematically biased in favour of capital intensive production at the expense of knowledge and labour-intensive production. The use of capital in the GDP-measure is considered to be as valuable as the production's ability to pay taxes, profits and labor compensation. The bias of the GDP is actually the difference between the GDP and the producer income. (Saari 2011,10,16) 
      Another labour productivity measure, output per worker, is often seen as a proper measure of labour productivity, as here: “Productivity isn't everything, but in the long run it is almost everything. A country's ability to improve its standard of living over time depends almost entirely on its ability to raise its output per worker.“  This measure (output per worker) is, however, more problematic than the GDP or even invalid because this measure allows maximizing all supplied inputs, i.e. materials, services, energy and capital at the expense of producer income.  
      Multi-factor productivity 
      
      
       Main article: Total factor productivity
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Trends in U.S. productivity from labor, capital and multi-factor sources over the 1987-2014 period.
        
       
       
      When multiple inputs are considered, the measure is called multi-factor productivity or MFP. Multi-factor productivity is typically estimated using growth accounting. If the inputs specifically are labor and capital, and the outputs are value added intermediate outputs, the measure is called total factor productivity or TFP. TFP measures the residual growth that cannot be explained by the rate of change in the services of labour and capital. MFP replaced the term TFP used in the earlier literature, and both terms continue in use (usually interchangeably) (Hulten 2009,7). 
      TFP is often interpreted as a rough average measure of productivity, more specifically the contribution to economic growth made by factors such as technical and organisational innovation. (OECD 2008,11). The most famous description is that of Solow's (1957): ”I am using the phrase ’technical change’ as a shorthand expression for any kind of shift in the production function. Thus slowdowns, speed ups, improvements in the education of the labor force and all sorts of things will appear as ’technical change’ ”. The original MFP model (Solow 1957) involves several assumptions: that there is a stable functional relation between inputs and output at the economy-wide level of aggregation, that this function has neoclassical smoothness and curvature properties, that inputs are paid the value of their marginal product, that the function exhibits constant returns to scale, and that technical change has the Hicks’n neutral form (Hulten, 2009,5). In practice, TFP is "a measure of our ignorance", as Abramovitz (1956) put it, precisely because it is a residual. This ignorance covers many components, some wanted (like the effects of technical and organizational innovation), others unwanted (measurement error, omitted variables, aggregation bias, model misspecification) (Hulten 2000,11). Hence the relationship between TFP and productivity remains unclear.  
      Individual and Team Productivity 
      The manager or leader of a team can significantly increase productivity in various ways. The outcome of this can produce the following benefits. 
      Team/Individual Reaction:  
      
       Team or individual have positive reaction to a good manager. Creating efficiencies for the team or individual. 
       The individual or team will gain more confidence having a strong manager/leader and in turn be more productive. 
       Individuals having trust in their manager/leader which creates a better overall work environment and promotes productivity. 
       Positive moral in the work environment, promoting productivity. 
       Having a good manager/leader reduces turnover. Creating a stronger and more knowledgeable workforce that moves the productivity dial forward.
       
      As an accounting result the MFP growth is 1.119-0.546-0.541=0.032 or 3.2%. 
      The residual problem of Multi Factor Productivity was solved by many authors who developed production income formation models where productivity was an integrated factor. For this purpose was needed Total Productivity concept.  
      Total productivity 
      
      
       Main article: Production (economics)
       
      When all outputs and inputs are included in the productivity measure it is called total productivity. A valid measurement of total productivity necessitates considering all production inputs. If we omit an input in productivity (or income accounting) this means that the omitted input can be used unlimitedly in production without any impact on accounting results. Because total productivity includes all production inputs, it is used as an integrated variable when we want to explain income formation of the production process. 
      Davis has considered the phenomenon of productivity, measurement of productivity, distribution of productivity gains, and how to measure such gains. He refers to an article suggesting that the measurement of productivity shall be developed so that it ”will indicate increases or decreases in the productivity of the company and also the distribution of the ’fruits of production’ among all parties at interest”. According to Davis, the price system is a mechanism through which productivity gains are distributed, and besides the business enterprise, receiving parties may consist of its customers, staff and the suppliers of production inputs. 
      In the main article is presented the role of total productivity as a variable when explaining how income formation of production is always a balance between income generation and income distribution. The income change created by production function is always distributed to the stakeholders as economic values within the review period.  
      Benefits of productivity growth 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Labour productivity growth in Australia since 1978, measured by GDP per hour worked (indexed)
        
       
       
      Productivity growth is a crucial source of growth in living standards. Productivity growth means more value is added in production and this means more income is available to be distributed. 
      At a firm or industry level, the benefits of productivity growth can be distributed in a number of different ways:  
      
       to the workforce through better wages and conditions; 
       to shareholders and superannuation funds through increased profits and dividend distributions; 
       to customers through lower prices; 
       to the environment through more stringent environmental protection; and 
       to governments through increases in tax payments (which can be used to fund social and environmental programs).
       
      Productivity growth is important to the firm because it means that it can meet its (perhaps growing) obligations to workers, shareholders, and governments (taxes and regulation), and still remain competitive or even improve its competitiveness in the market place. Adding more inputs will not increase the income earned per unit of input (unless there are increasing returns to scale). In fact, it is likely to mean lower average wages and lower rates of profit. But, when there is productivity growth, even the existing commitment of resources generates more output and income. Income generated per unit of input increases. Additional resources are also attracted into production and can be profitably employed.  
      Drivers of productivity growth 
      
      
       See also: Productivity improving technologies
       
      In the most immediate sense, productivity is determined by the available technology or know-how for converting resources into outputs, and the way in which resources are organized to produce goods and services. Historically, productivity has improved through evolution as processes with poor productivity performance are abandoned and newer forms are exploited. Process improvements may include organizational structures (e.g. core functions and supplier relationships), management systems, work arrangements, manufacturing techniques, and changing market structure. A famous example is the assembly line and the process of mass production that appeared in the decade following commercial introduction of the automobile. 
      Mass production dramatically reduced the labor in producing parts for and assembling the automobile, but after its widespread adoption productivity gains in automobile production were much lower. A similar pattern was observed with electrification, which saw the highest productivity gains in the early decades after introduction. Many other industries show similar patterns. The pattern was again followed by the computer, information and communications industries in the late 1990s when much of the national productivity gains occurred in these industries. 
      There is a general understanding of the main determinants or drivers of productivity growth. Certain factors are critical for determining productivity growth. The Office for National Statistics (UK) identifies five drivers that interact to underlie long-term productivity performance: investment, innovation, skills, enterprise and competition. (ONS 3, 20)  
      
       Investment is in physical capital&nbsp;— machinery, equipment and buildings. The more capital workers have at their disposal, generally the better they are able to do their jobs, producing more and better quality output. 
       Innovation is the successful exploitation of new ideas. New ideas can take the form of new technologies, new products or new corporate structures and ways of working. Speeding up the diffusion of innovations can boost productivity. 
       Skills are defined as the quantity and quality of labour of different types available in an economy. Skills complement physical capital, and are needed to take advantage of investment in new technologies and organisational structures. 
       Enterprise is defined as the seizing of new business opportunities by both start-ups and existing firms. New enterprises compete with existing firms by new ideas and technologies increasing competition. Entrepreneurs are able to combine factors of production and new technologies forcing existing firms to adapt or exit the market. 
       Competition improves productivity by creating incentives to innovate and ensures that resources are allocated to the most efficient firms. It also forces existing firms to organise work more effectively through imitations of organisational structures and technology.
       
      Individual and team productivity 
      
      
       See also: Programming productivity
       
      Technology has enabled massive personal productivity gains—computers, spreadsheets, email, and other advances have made it possible for a knowledge worker to seemingly produce more in a day than was previously possible in a year. Environmental factors such as sleep and leisure play a significant role in work productivity and received wage. Drivers of productivity growth for creative and knowledge workers include improved or intensified exchange with peers or co-workers, as more productive peers have a stimulating effect on one's own productivity. Productivity is influenced by effective supervision and job satisfaction. An effective or knowledgeable supervisor (for example a supervisor who uses the Management by objectives method) has an easier time motivating their employees to produce more in quantity and quality. An employee who has an effective supervisor, motivating them to be more productive is likely to experience a new level of job satisfaction thereby becoming a driver of productivity itself. There is also considerable evidence to support improved productivity through operant conditioning reinforcement, successful gamification engagement, research-based recommendations on principles and implementation guidelines for using monetary rewards effectively, and recognition, based on social cognitive theory, which builds upon self-efficacy.  
      Detrimental impact of bullying, incivility, toxicity and psychopathy 
      Workplace bullying results in a loss of productivity, as measured by self-rated job performance. Over time, targets of bullying will spend more time protecting themselves against harassment by bullies and less time fulfilling their duties. Workplace incivility has also been associated with diminished productivity in terms of quality and quantity of work. 
      A toxic workplace is a workplace that is marked by significant drama and infighting, where personal battles often harm productivity. While employees are distracted by this, they cannot devote time and attention to the achievement of business goals. When toxic employees leave the workplace, it can improve the culture overall because the remaining staff become more engaged and productive. The presence of a workplace psychopath may have a serious detrimental impact on productivity in an organisation. 
      In companies where the traditional hierarchy has been removed in favor of an egalitarian, team-based setup, the employees are often happier, and individual productivity is improved (as they themselves are better placed to increase the efficiency of the workfloor). Companies that have these hierarchies removed and have their employees work more in teams are called liberated companies or "Freedom Inc.'s". The Kaizen system of bottom-up, continuous improvement was first practiced by Japanese manufacturers after World War II, most notably as part of The Toyota Way.  
      Business productivity 
      Productivity is one of the main concerns of business management and engineering. Many companies have formal programs for continuously improving productivity, such as a production assurance program. Whether they have a formal program or not, companies are constantly looking for ways to improve quality, reduce downtime and inputs of labor, materials, energy and purchased services. Often simple changes to operating methods or processes increase productivity, but the biggest gains are normally from adopting new technologies, which may require capital expenditures for new equipment, computers or software. Modern productivity science owes much to formal investigations that are associated with scientific management. Although from an individual management perspective, employees may be doing their jobs well and with high levels of individual productivity, from an organizational perspective their productivity may in fact be zero or effectively negative if they are dedicated to redundant or value destroying activities. In office buildings and service-centred companies, productivity is largely influenced and affected by operational byproducts - meetings. The past few years have seen a positive uptick in the number of software solutions focused on improving office productivity. In truth, proper planning and procedures are more likely to help than anything else.  
      Productivity paradox 
      
      
       Main article: Productivity paradox
       
      Overall productivity growth was relatively slow from the 1970s through the early 1990s, and again from the 2000s to 2020s. Although several possible causes for the slowdown have been proposed there is no consensus. The matter is subject to a continuing debate that has grown beyond questioning whether just computers can significantly increase productivity to whether the potential to increase productivity is becoming exhausted.  
      National productivity 
      In order to measure the productivity of a nation or an industry, it is necessary to operationalize the same concept of productivity as in a production unit or a company, yet, the object of modelling is substantially wider and the information more aggregate. The calculations of productivity of a nation or an industry are based on the time series of the SNA, System of National Accounts. National accounting is a system based on the recommendations of the UN (SNA 93) to measure the total production and total income of a nation and how they are used. (Saari 2006, 9) 
      International or national productivity growth stems from a complex interaction of factors. Some of the most important immediate factors include technological change, organizational change, industry restructuring and resource reallocation, as well as economies of scale and scope. A nation's average productivity level can also be affected by the movement of resources from low-productivity to high-productivity industries and activities. Over time, other factors such as research and development and innovative effort, the development of human capital through education, and incentives from stronger competition promote the search for productivity improvements and the ability to achieve them. Ultimately, many policy, institutional and cultural factors determine a nation's success in improving productivity. 
      At the national level, productivity growth raises living standards because more real income improves people's ability to purchase goods and services (whether they are necessities or luxuries), enjoy leisure, improve housing and education and contribute to social and environmental programs. Some have suggested that the UK's 'productivity puzzle' is an urgent issue for policy makers and businesses to address in order to sustain growth. Over long periods of time, small differences in rates of productivity growth compound, like interest in a bank account, and can make an enormous difference to a society's prosperity. Nothing contributes more to reduction of poverty, to increases in leisure, and to the country's ability to finance education, public health, environment and the arts’. 
      Productivity is considered basic statistical information for many international comparisons and country performance assessments and there is strong interest in comparing them internationally. The OECD publishes an annual Compendium of Productivity Indicators that includes both labor and multi-factor measures of productivity.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Agile construction 
        Assembly line 
        Computer-aided manufacturing 
        Counterproductive work behavior 
        Division of labour 
        Industrial Revolution 
        Mass production 
        Productive and unproductive labour 
        Production (economics) 
        Productive forces 
        Production function 
        Productivity model 
        Production possibility frontier 
        Production theory basics 
        Productivity improving technologies (historical) 
        Second Industrial Revolution
       
       
      References 
      Citations 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Encyclopedia of busine$$ and finance. Kaliski, Burton S., Macmillan Reference USA. New York: Macmillan Reference USA. 2001. ISBN&nbsp;0028650654. OCLC&nbsp;45403115.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ a b Sickles, R., &amp; Zelenyuk, V. (2019). Measurement of Productivity and Efficiency: Theory and Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781139565981   
         ^ Courbois &amp; Temple 1975, Gollop 1979, Kurosawa 1975, Pineda 1990, Saari 2006, Hitt and Brynjolfsson 1996, Sickles and Zelenyuk (2019)  
         ^ a b 
           Sumanth, David J. (1997-10-27). Total Productivity Management (TPmgt): A Systemic and Quantitative Approach to Compete in Quality, Price and Time. CRC Press. p.&nbsp;5. ISBN&nbsp;9781574440577. Retrieved 11 March 2017.  
         ^ a b 
           "Multifactor Productivity - Overview". Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Department of Labor. Retrieved 11 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           Paul Krugman (1994). The Age of Diminishing Expectations. MIT Press.  
         ^ Davis, 1955  
         ^ 1947, Journal of Accountancy, Feb. p.&nbsp;94  
         ^ 
           Field, Alexander J. (2006). "Technical change and US economic growth: The interwar period and the 1990s". In Rhode, Paul W; Toniolo, Gianni (eds.). The Global Economy in the 1990s. pp.&nbsp;89–117. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511616464.006. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-511-61646-4. S2CID&nbsp;155395606.  
         ^ 
           Ayres, Robert U.; Warr, Benjamin (2006). "Economic growth, technological progress and energy use in the U.S. over the last century: Identifying common trends and structural change in macroeconomic time series". INSEAD Business in Society Centre.  
         ^ a b 
           Fuller, Ryan (19 April 2016). "The Paradox of Workplace Productivity".  
         ^ 
           Gibson, Matthew; Shrader, Jeffrey (14 July 2014). "Time Use and Productivity: The Wage Returns to Sleep". EScholarship. Retrieved 11 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           Borowiecki, Karol J. (2013). "Geographic clustering and productivity: An instrumental variable approach for classical composers" (PDF). Journal of Urban Economics. 73 (1): 94–110. doi:10.1016/j.jue.2012.07.004.  
         ^ 
           Borowiecki, Karol J. (2015). "Agglomeration Economies in Classical Music" (PDF). Papers in Regional Science. 94 (3): 443–68. doi:10.1111/pirs.12078.  
         ^ 
           Thompson, K. R.; et&nbsp;al. (1981). "The Effects of MBO on Performance and Satisfaction in a Public Sector Organization". Journal of Management. 7 (1): 53–68. doi:10.1177/014920638100700105. S2CID&nbsp;18992717.  
         ^ 
           Skinner, B.F. (1974). About Behaviorism. ISBN&nbsp;0-394-49201-3.  
         ^ 
           Robson, Karen; Plangger, Kirk; Kietzmann, Jan H.; McCarthy, Ian; Pitt, Leyland (January 2016). "Game on: Engaging customers and employees through gamification". Business Horizons. 59 (1): 29–36. doi:10.1016/j.bushor.2015.08.002.  
         ^ 
           Aguinis, Herman; Joo, Harry; Gottfredson, Ryan K. (March 2013). "What monetary rewards can and cannot do: How to show employees the money". Business Horizons. 56 (2): 241–249. doi:10.1016/j.bushor.2012.11.007.  
         ^ 
           Luthans, Fred; Stajkovic, Alexander D. (2015). "Provide Recognition for Performance Improvement". Handbook of Principles of Organizational Behavior. pp.&nbsp;239–253. doi:10.1002/9781119206422.ch13. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-119-20642-2.  
         ^ Helge H, Sheehan MJ, Cooper CL, Einarsen S "Organisational Effects of Workplace Bullying" in Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace: Developments in Theory, Research, and Practice (2010)  
         ^ 
           Fisher-Blando, J. L. (2008). Workplace bullying: Aggressive behavior and its effect on job satisfaction and productivity (PDF) (PhD). University of Phoenix.  
         ^ 
           "9 signs your work place needs civility, 6 steps to achieve it - TechJournal". Archived from the original on 9 June 2015. Retrieved 25 September 2014.  
         ^ Benoit, Suzanne (2011) "Toxic Employees: great companies resolve this problem, you can too!" Falmouth, Maine: BCSPublishing  
         ^ Bitting, Robert. "Using Effective Leadership Strategies in the Workplace". http://www.robertbitting.com/files/articles/Toxic-Employees-in-the-Work-Place.pdf Archived 2011-08-13 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved May 13, 2011.  
         ^ Mayhew, Ruth "Is employee turnover always bad?" accessed at: http://smallbusiness.chron.com/employee-turnover-always-bad-11089.html  
         ^ Boddy, C. R. (2010) ‘Corporate Psychopaths and Productivity', Management Services Spring, 26–30.  
         ^ 
           "Innovation Management&nbsp;: Are start-ups Freedom Inc. companies? – Innovation Excellence". innovationexcellence.com.  
         ^ 
           "L'entreprise liberée". Archived from the original on 2016-08-20. Retrieved 2016-07-15.  
         ^ 
           "What is Holacracy". holacracy.org.  
         ^ 
           "Liberated company with an innovative managerial culture - Groupe Poult". www.groupe-poult.com.  
         ^ 
           "SEMCO" (PDF). semco.com.br.  
         ^ 
           Nelson, Daniel (1980). Frederick W. Taylor and the Rise of Scientific Management. University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0299081607.  
         ^ 
           "Stop the Meeting Madness". Harvard Business Review. 2017-07-01. Retrieved 2018-06-27.  
         ^ 
           "Business And Productivity Apps Market Worth $58 Billion By 2016 ". Dazeinfo. 2014-05-12. Retrieved 2018-06-27.  
         ^ 
           "Meeting Room Productivity / Blog / YArooms". www.yarooms.com. Retrieved 2018-06-27.  
         ^ 
           Brynjolfsson, Erik (1993). "The productivity paradox of information technology". Communications of the ACM. 36 (12): 66–77. doi:10.1145/163298.163309. ISSN&nbsp;0001-0782. S2CID&nbsp;15074120.  
         ^ 
           Zelenyuk, Valentin (30 October 2018). "Testing Significance of Contributions in Growth Accounting, with Application to Testing ICT Impact on Labor Productivity of Developed Countries". International Journal of Business and Economics. 13 (2): 115–126 – via ideas.repec.org.  
         ^ 
           Bordoloi, Tausif (2019-10-11). "The UK productivity puzzle: Can manufacturing automation be one of the solutions?". Medium. Retrieved 2019-12-03.  
         ^ Alan Blinder and William Baumol 1993, Economics: Principles and Policy, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, San Diego, p.&nbsp;778.  
         ^ 
           "Labour productivity levels in the total economy".  
         ^ Compendium of Productivity Indicators, OECD  
        
       
       
      Sources 
      
       
       
        
         Abramovitz, M. (May 1956). "Resource and Output Trends in the United States since 1870". American Economic Review. 46 (2): 5–23. JSTOR&nbsp;1910656. 
        
         Bechler, J.G (1984). "The Productivity Management Process". American Productivity Center. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
        
         Courbois, R.; Temple, P. (1975). La methode des "Comptes de surplus" et ses applications macroeconomiques. 160 des Collect, INSEE, Serie C (35). p.&nbsp;100. 
        
         Craig, C.; Harris, R. (1973). "Total Productivity Measurement at the Firm Level". Sloan Management Review (Spring 1973): 13–28. 
        
         Davis, H.S. (1955). Productivity Accounting. University of Pennsylvania. 
        
         Freeman, R. (2008). Labour productivity indicators (PDF). OECD. 
        
         Genesca, G.E.; Grifell, T. E. (1992). "Profits and Total Factor Productivity: A Comparative Analysis". Omega. The International Journal of Management Science. 20 (5/6): 553–568. doi:10.1016/0305-0483(92)90002-O. 
        
         Gollop, F.M. (1979). "Accounting for Intermediate Input: The Link Between Sectoral and Aggregate Measures of Productivity Growth". Measurement and Interpretation of Productivity. National Academy of Sciences. 
        
         Hulten, C. R. (January 2000). "Total Factor Productivity: A Short Biography". NBER Working Paper No. 7471. doi:10.3386/w7471. 
        
         Hulten, C. R. (September 2009). "Growth Accounting". NBER Working Paper No. 15341. doi:10.3386/w15341. 
        
         Jorgenson, D.W.; Griliches, Z. (1967). "The Explanation of Productivity Change". Review of Economic Studies. 34 (99): 249–283. doi:10.2307/2296675. JSTOR&nbsp;2296675. 
        
         Jorgenson, D.W.; Ho, M.S.; Samuels, J.D. (2014). Long-term Estimates of U.S. Productivity and Growth (PDF). Tokyo: Third World KLEMS Conference. 
        
         Kendrick, J.; Creamer, D. (1965). "Measuring Company Productivity: A handbook with Case Studies" (89). The National Industry Productivity Board. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) 
        
         Kendrick, J.W. (1984). Improving Company Productivity. The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780801829925. 
        
         Kohli, U (2012). Productivity: National vs. Domestic (PDF). Sydney, Australia: EMG Workshop, University of New South Wales, November 21–23, 2012. 
        
         Kurosawa, K (1975). "An aggregate index for the analysis of productivity". Omega. 3 (2): 157–168. doi:10.1016/0305-0483(75)90115-2. 
        
         Loggerenberg van, B.; Cucchiaro, S. (1982). "Productivity Measurement and the Bottom Line". National Productivity Review. 1 (1): 87–99. doi:10.1002/npr.4040010111. 
        
         Mundel, M.E. (1983). Improving Productivity and Effectiveness. Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
        
         OECD (2008). Compendium of Productivity Indicators 2008. OECD. 
        ONS 3 (Office for National Statistics, UK). Productivity Theory and Drivers. 
        
         Pineda, A. (1990). A Multiple Case Study Research to Determine and respond to Management Information Need Using Total-Factor Productivity Measurement (TFPM). Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. 
        
         Riistama, K.; Jyrkkiö E. (1971). Operatiivinen laskentatoimi (Operative accounting). Weilin + Göös. p.&nbsp;335. 
        
         Saari, S. (2006a). Productivity. Theory and Measurement in Business. Productivity Handbook (In Finnish). MIDO OY. p.&nbsp;272. 
        
         Saari, S. (2011). Production and Productivity as Sources of Well-being. MIDO OY. p.&nbsp;25. 
        
         Saari, S. (2006). Productivity. Theory and Measurement in Business (PDF). Espoo, Finland: European Productivity Conference. 
        
         Schreyer, P. (2005). Measuring Productivity (PDF). Tokyo: OECD. 
        
         Solow, R.N. (August 1957). "Technical Change and the Aggregate Production Function". The Review of Economics and Statistics. 39 (3): 312–320. doi:10.2307/1926047. JSTOR&nbsp;1926047. S2CID&nbsp;153438644.
        
       
      Further reading 
      
       World Bank, 2020. Global Productivity: Trends, Drivers, and Policies. Edited by Alistair Dieppe. 
       Caves, Douglas W &amp; Christensen, Laurits R &amp; Diewert, W Erwin, 1982. "Multilateral Comparisons of Output, Input, and Productivity Using Superlative Index Numbers," Economic Journal, Royal Economic Society, vol. 92(365), pages 73–86, March. 
       Caves, Douglas W &amp; Christensen, Laurits R &amp; Diewert, W Erwin, 1982. "The Economic Theory of Index Numbers and the Measurement of Input, Output, and Productivity," Econometrica, vol. 50(6), pages 1393-1414, November. 
       Alexandra Daskovska &amp; Léopold Simar &amp; Sébastien Bellegem, 2010. "Forecasting the Malmquist productivity index," Journal of Productivity Analysis, Springer, vol. 33(2), pages 97–107, April. 
       Färe, R., Grosskopf, S., Norris, M., &amp; Zhang, Z. 1994. Productivity growth, technical progress, and efficiency change in industrialized countries. The American Economic Review 84, pages 66–83. 
       Simar, Leopold &amp; Wilson, Paul W., 1999. "Estimating and bootstrapping Malmquist indices," European Journal of Operational Research, Elsevier, vol. 115(3), pages 459-471, June. ] 
       Mayer, A. and Zelenyuk, V. 2014. "Aggregation of Malmquist productivity indexes allowing for reallocation of resources," European Journal of Operational Research, Elsevier, vol. 238(3), pages 774-785. 
       Zelenyuk, V. 2006. "Aggregation of Malmquist productivity indexes," European Journal of Operational Research, vol. 174(2), pages 1076-1086. 
       "2020 Home Office Productivity Set Up"
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Productivity
         
       
       
      
       
        Field, Alexander J. (2008). "Productivity". In David R. Henderson (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Indianapolis: Library of Economics and Liberty. ISBN&nbsp;978-0865976658. OCLC&nbsp;237794267. 
       Productivity and Costs&nbsp;– Bureau of Labor Statistics United States Department of Labor: contains international comparisons of productivity rates, historical and present 
       Productivity Statistics – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
       Greenspan Speech 
       OECD estimates of labour productivity levels
       
      Handbooks 
      
       Measuring Productivity – OECD Manual 
       Office for National Statistics (UK) Productivity handbook 
       Bureau of Labor Statistics, Productivity Statistics (U.S.)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Productivity&amp;oldid=1069473616"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Production economics
       Manufacturing
       Economic growth
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: others
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2017
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Banjar
       Български
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Қазақша
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Македонски
       Bahasa Melayu
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       سنڌي
       کوردی
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Tiếng Việt
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 February 2022, at 14:03&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
