
 
  
   
  Information professional - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information professional 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
       An information professional or information specialist is someone who collects, records, organises, stores, preserves, retrieves, and disseminates printed or digital information. The service delivered to the client is known as an information service. 
      The versatile term "information professional" is used to describe similar and sometimes overlapping professions, such as librarians, archivists, information managers, information systems specialists, information scientists, records managers, and information consultants, but terminology differs among sources and organisations. Information professionals work in a variety of private, public, and academic institutions, or independently.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Skills 
        2 Associations 
        3 Qualifications 
          
          3.1 Africa 
          3.2 Asia 
          3.3 Australasia 
          3.4 Europe 
          3.5 North America 
          3.6 South America 
           
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Skills 
      Since the term information professional is broad, the skills required for this profession are also varied. A Gartner report in 2011 pointed out that "Professional roles focused on information management will be different to that of established IT roles. An 'information professional' will not be one type of role or skill set, but will in fact have a number of specializations". Thus, an information professional can possess a variety of different skills, depending on the sector in which the person is employed. 
      Some essential cross-sector skills are:  
      
       IT skills, such as word-processing and spreadsheets, digitisation skills, and conducting Internet searches, together with skills loan systems, databases, content management systems, and specially designed programmes and packages. 
       Customer service. An information professional should have the ability to address the information needs of customers. 
       Language proficiency. This is essential in order to manage the information at hand and deal with customer needs. 
       Soft skills. These include skills such as negotiating, conflict resolution, and time management. 
       Management training. An information professional should be familiar with notions such as strategic planning and project management.
       
      Moreover, an information professional should be skilled in planning and using relevant systems, in capturing and securing information, and in accessing it to deliver service whenever the information is required.  
      Associations 
      Most countries have a professional association who oversee the professional and academic standards of librarians and other information professionals. There are also international associations related to LIS (library and information science), the most prominent of which is the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA). In many countries, LIS courses are accredited by the relevant professional association, as the American Library Association (ALA) in the USA, the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals (CILIP) in the UK, and the Australian Library and Information Association (ALIA) in Australia.  
      Qualifications 
      
      
       Further information: Education for librarianship
       
      Educational institutions around the world offer academic degrees, or degrees on related subjects such as Archival Studies, Information Systems, Information Management, and Records Management. Some of the institutions offering information science education refer to themselves as an iSchool, such as the CiSAP (Consortium of iSchools Asia Pacific, founded 2006) in Asia and the iSchool Caucus in the USA. There are also online e-learning resources, some of which offer certification for information professionals.  
      Africa 
      Information development in Africa started later than in other continents, mainly due to a lack of internet access, expertise and resources to manage digital infrastructure, and "opportunities for capacity development and knowledge-sharing". 
      Nowadays, academic degrees in information studies are available at many universities of African countries, such as the University of Pretoria (South Africa), University of Nairobi (Kenya), Makerere University (Uganda), University of Botswana (Botswana), and University of Nigeria (Nigeria).  
      Asia 
      LIS-related studies are available in more than 30 Asian countries. Some examples listed by iSchools Inc. are the University of Hong Kong, University of Tsukuba, Japan, Yonsei University, South Korea, National Taiwan University and Wuhan University, China.  
      Australasia 
      The Australian Library and Information Association (ALIA) as of 2021 lists six schools offering undergraduate and postgraduate accredited university courses for "Librarian and Information Specialists" on their website. 
      In New Zealand, the Open Polytechnic of New Zealand and the Victoria University of Wellington offer undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses for information professionals.  
      Europe 
      The majority of European countries have universities, colleges, or schools which offer bachelor's degrees in LIS studies. Over 40 universities offer master's degrees in LIS-related fields, and many institutions, such as the Swedish School of Library and Information Science at the University of Borås (Sweden), the University of Barcelona (Spain), Loughborough University (UK), and Aberystwyth University (Wales, UK) also offer PhD degrees.  
      North America 
      Information studies and degrees are available at numerous academic institutions throughout the US and Canada. US professional associations, together with their European counterparts, have undertaken many educational initiatives and pioneered many advances in the field of Information studies, such as increased interdisciplinarity and more effective delivery of distance learning. The Association for Intelligent Information Management, based in Silver Spring, MD, offers a qualification called Certified Information Professional (CIP), earned upon passing an examination, with certification remaining valid for three years.  
      South America 
      There are many schools and colleges in Latin American countries which offer courses in Library Science, Archival Studies, and Information Studies, however these subjects are taught completely separately.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Archival science 
        Association of UK Media Librarians 
        Education for librarianship 
        Information retrieval 
        Information school 
        Information scientist 
        International Society for Knowledge Organization (ISKO) 
        Library and information science 
        List of library associations 
        UKSG
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c Greer, R.C.; Grover, R.; Fowler, S.G. (2007). Introduction to the Library and Information Professions. NetLibrary, Inc. Libraries Unlimited. p.&nbsp;12-15, 79. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-313-09580-1. Retrieved 9 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           Wormell, Irene; Olesen, Annie Joan; Mikulás, Gábor (1 January 2011). What is information consulting?. ScienceDirect. pp.&nbsp;1–11. doi:10.1016/B978-1-84334-662-3.50001-3. ISBN&nbsp;9781843346623. Retrieved 8 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Information Consultant - an overview". ScienceDirect. Topics.  
         ^ 
           Mancini, John F. "Rise of the Information Professional: A Career Path for the Digital Economy" (PDF). AIIM White Paper. AIIM: 4. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 March 2012. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Research Focus Pty Ltd (15 March 2010). "The demand for and supply of skills in library and information services, archival services and records management" (PDF). For the Department of Arts and Culture. National Archives and Records Service (NARS, South Africa): 87–88. Retrieved 9 March 2021. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ a b 
           "Become a Certified Information Professional (CIP)". AIIM.  
         ^ 
           Sacchanand, Chutima (17 June 2016). Development of Management Strategies for Collaboration in Information Science Education and Research in the ASEAN Community (Report). Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.  
         ^ 
           "65th IFLA Council and General Conference: Bangkok, Thailand, August 20 - August 28, 1999". IFLA. Global information infrastructure and the question of African content, by Justin Chisenga. 1999. Retrieved 9 March 2021.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ 
           "About us: 3rd International Conference on African Digital Libraries and Archives (ICADLA-3)". University of the Witwatersrand. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014. Retrieved 18 June 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Directory of Library &amp; Information Science Programs in Asia". Consortium of iSchools Asia Pacific. Organization now part of iSchools Inc. Archived from the original on 14 January 2013. Retrieved 31 October 2011.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ 
           "Asia Pacific Directory". iSchools, Inc. 1 March 2021. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Librarians and information specialists". Australian Library and Information Association. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Qualifications". Libraries Aotearoa. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Library and Information Studies". Open Polytechnic of New Zealand. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Library and Information Science". Högskolan i Borås. 30 June 2020. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           Owens, Irene; Leonhardt, Tom (2009). "LIS education in North America". In Abdullahi, Ismail (ed.). Global Library and Information Science: A Textbook for Students and Educators: with Contributions from Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East, and North America. IFLA publications. K.G. Saur. pp.&nbsp;549–563. doi:10.1515/9783598441349.549. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-598-22042-5. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           Gallardo, Adolfo Rodríguez (2009). "Educational system in Latin America". In Abdullahi, Ismail (ed.). Global Library and Information Science: A Textbook for Students and Educators: with Contributions from Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East, and North America. IFLA publications. K.G. Saur. pp.&nbsp;405–415. doi:10.1515/9783598441349.405. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-598-22042-5. Retrieved 10 March 2021.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Carvell, Linda P. (2005). Career Opportunities in Library and Information Science. New York: Checkmark Books. pp.&nbsp;75–79, 171–181. ISBN&nbsp;978-0816052455. 
       
        Taylor, T. Allan; Parish, James Robert (2009). Career Opportunities in Library and Information Science. New York: Ferguson. pp.&nbsp;206–212. ISBN&nbsp;978-0816075461.
       
      External links 
      
       
        "World List". American Library Association. Education &amp; Careers. The World List was devised and developed by Professor Tom Wilson of the University of Sheffield, UK and maintained by him from 1996 to 2013. 2013.}: CS1 maint: others (link) World List of schools and departments of information science, information management and related disciplines
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_professional&amp;oldid=1057683311"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Education and training occupations
       Library occupations
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 maint: others
       Use dmy dates from March 2021
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2021
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2021
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 29 November 2021, at 01:29&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
