
 
  
   
  Information scientist - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information scientist 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (February 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The term information scientist developed in the latter part of the twentieth century to describe an individual, usually with a relevant subject degree (such as one in Information and Computer Science - CIS) or high level of subject knowledge, providing focused information to scientific and technical research staff in industry. It is a role quite distinct from and complementary to that of a librarian. Developments in end-user searching, together with some convergence between the roles of librarian and information scientist, have led to a diminution in its use in this context, and the term information officer or information professional (information specialist) are also now used. 
      The term was, and is, also used for an individual carrying out research in information science. 
      Brian C. Vickery mentions that the Institute of Information Scientists (IIS) was established in London during 1958 and lists the criteria put forward by this institute "Criteria for Information Science" (appendix 1) as well as his own "Areas of study in information science" (appendix 2). The IIS merged with the Library Association in 2002 to form the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals (CILIP).  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Examples 
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Examples 
      
       Marcia Bates 
       David Blair (information technologist) 
       Samuel C. Bradford 
       Michael Buckland 
       John M. Carroll 
       Blaise Cronin 
       Emilia Currás 
       Eugene Garfield 
       Paul B. Kantor 
       Frederick Wilfrid Lancaster 
       Calvin Mooers 
       Robert Saxton Taylor 
       Brian Campbell Vickery 
       Thomas D. Wilson
       
      See also 
      
       Computer scientist 
       Documentalist 
       Information history 
       Information science 
       Library and information scientist 
       Library scholar 
        
       
       
      References 
      
       Vickery, B. &amp; Vickery, A. (1987) Information Science in theory and practice (London: Bowker-Saur, pp.&nbsp;361–369) 
       Ellis, David and Merete Haugan. (1997) "Modelling the information seeking patterns of engineers and research scientists in an industrial environment" (Journal of Documentation, Volume 53(4): pp.&nbsp;384–403) 
       Vickery, Brian Campbell (1988) "Essays presented to B. C. Vickery" (Journal of Documentation, Volume 44, pp.&nbsp;199–283)
       
      External links 
      "Pioneers" of Information Science scrapbook: https://web.archive.org/web/20140201230801/http://faculty.libsci.sc.edu/bob/ISP/scrapbook.htm  
      
       scientists information
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
              
               2
               
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_scientist&amp;oldid=1040625078"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information theorists
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles lacking in-text citations from February 2013
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       All accuracy disputes
       Articles with disputed statements from August 2021
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       עברית
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 August 2021, at 17:37&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
