
 
  
   
  Systems analyst - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Systems analyst 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Systems analyst"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (October 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      A systems analyst, also known as business technology analyst, is an information technology (IT) professional who specializes in analyzing, designing and implementing information systems. Systems analysts assess the suitability of information systems in terms of their intended outcomes and liaise with end users, software vendors and programmers in order to achieve these outcomes. A systems analyst is a person who uses analysis and design techniques to solve business problems using information technology. Systems analysts may serve as change agents who identify the organizational improvements needed, design systems to implement those changes, and train and motivate others to use the systems.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Industry 
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 External links 
        
       
      Industry 
      As of 2015, the sectors employing the greatest numbers of computer systems analysts were state government, insurance, computer system design, professional and commercial equipment, and company and enterprise management. The number of jobs in this field is projected to grow from 487,000 as of 2009 to 650,000 by 2016. 
      This job ranked third best in a 2010 survey, fifth best in the 2011 survey, 9th best in the 2012 survey and the 10th best in the 2013 survey.  
      See also 
      
       Change management analyst 
       Business analyst 
       Software analyst 
       Business analysis
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Shelly, Gary B., Cashman, Thomas J., &amp; Vermaat, Misty E. Discovering Computers 2008, Complete. Boston: Thomson Course Technology. ISBN 1 -4239-1205-5  
         ^ "Occupational Employment and Wages, May 2015". bls.gov. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Retrieved 15 April 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Best and Worst Jobs 2010". Archived from the original on January 3, 2011. Retrieved July 1, 2020.  
         ^ Best and Worst Jobs of 2013  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Computer Systems Analysts in the Occupational Outlook Handbook from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a unit of the United States Department of Labor
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Systems_analyst&amp;oldid=1052667315"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Systems analysis
       Business occupations
       Computer occupations
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from October 2021
       All articles needing additional references
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Русский
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 October 2021, at 13:28&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
