
 
  
   
  Polymath - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Polymath 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       "Universal man" redirects here. For the sculpture by Canadian artist Gerald Gladstone, see Universal Man.
       
      
      
       "Polyhistor" redirects here. For the ancient Greek scholar, see Alexander Polyhistor.
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Polymath (disambiguation).
       
      
       Individual whose knowledge spans a substantial number of subjects
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Benjamin Franklin is one of the foremost polymaths in history. Franklin was a writer, scientist, inventor, statesman, diplomat, printer and political philosopher. He was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.
        
       
       
      A polymath (Greek: πολυμαθής, polymathēs, "having learned much"; Latin: homo universalis, "universal human") is an individual whose knowledge spans a substantial number of subjects, known to draw on complex bodies of knowledge to solve specific problems. 
      In Western Europe, the first work to use the term polymathy in its title (De Polymathia tractatio: integri operis de studiis veterum) was published in 1603 by Johann von Wowern, a Hamburg philosopher. Von Wowern defined polymathy as "knowledge of various matters, drawn from all kinds of studies&nbsp;... ranging freely through all the fields of the disciplines, as far as the human mind, with unwearied industry, is able to pursue them". Von Wowern lists erudition, literature, philology, philomathy and polyhistory as synonyms. 
      The earliest recorded use of the term in the English language is from 1624, in the second edition of The Anatomy of Melancholy by Robert Burton; the form polymathist is slightly older, first appearing in the Diatribae upon the first part of the late History of Tithes of Richard Montagu in 1621. Use in English of the similar term polyhistor dates from the late 16th century. 
      Polymaths include the great scholars and thinkers of the Renaissance and Enlightenment, who excelled at several fields in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and the arts. In the Italian Renaissance, the idea of the polymath was expressed by Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472) in the statement that "a man can do all things if he will". Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz has often been seen as a polymath. Al-Biruni was also a polymath. 
      Embodying a basic tenet of Renaissance humanism that humans are limitless in their capacity for development, the concept led to the notion that people should embrace all knowledge and develop their capacities as fully as possible. This is expressed in the term Renaissance man, often applied to the gifted people of that age who sought to develop their abilities in all areas of accomplishment: intellectual, artistic, social, physical, and spiritual.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Renaissance man 
        2 In academia 
          
          2.1 Robert Root-Bernstein and colleagues 
          2.2 Peter Burke 
          2.3 Kaufman, Beghetto and colleagues 
          2.4 Bharath Sriraman 
          2.5 Michael Araki 
           
        3 Related terms 
        4 See also 
        5 References and notes 
        6 Further reading 
        
       
      Renaissance man 
      
      
       "Renaissance man" redirects here. For use as a title of cultural works, see Renaissance Man.
       
      The term "Renaissance man" was first recorded in written English in the early 20th century. It is used to refer to great thinkers living before, during, or after the Renaissance. Leonardo da Vinci has often been described as the archetype of the Renaissance man, a man of "unquenchable curiosity" and "feverishly inventive imagination". Many notable polymaths lived during the Renaissance period, a cultural movement that spanned roughly the 14th through to the 17th century that began in Italy in the Late Middle Ages and later spread to the rest of Europe. These polymaths had a rounded approach to education that reflected the ideals of the humanists of the time. A gentleman or courtier of that era was expected to speak several languages, play a musical instrument, write poetry and so on, thus fulfilling the Renaissance ideal. 
      The idea of a universal education was essential to achieving polymath ability, hence the word university was used to describe a seat of learning. However, the original Latin word universitas refers in general to "a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation, etc". At this time, universities did not specialize in specific areas, but rather trained students in a broad array of science, philosophy and theology. This universal education gave them a grounding from which they could continue into apprenticeship toward becoming a master of a specific field. 
      When someone is called a "Renaissance man" today, it is meant that rather than simply having broad interests or superficial knowledge in several fields, the individual possesses a more profound knowledge and a proficiency, or even an expertise, in at least some of those fields. 
      Some dictionaries use the term "Renaissance man" to describe someone with many interests or talents, while others give a meaning restricted to the Renaissance and more closely related to Renaissance ideals.  
      In academia 
      Robert Root-Bernstein and colleagues 
      Robert Root-Bernstein is considered the principal responsible for rekindling interest in polymathy in the scientific community. His works emphasize the contrast between the polymath and two other types: the specialist and the dilettante. The specialist demonstrates depth but lacks breadth of knowledge. The dilettante demonstrates superficial breadth but tend to acquire skills merely "for their own sake without regard to understanding the broader applications or implications and without integrating it".: 857  Conversely, the polymath is a person with a level of expertise that is able to "put a significant amount of time and effort into their avocations and find ways to use their multiple interests to inform their vocations".: 857  
      A key point in the work of Root-Bernstein and colleagues is the argument in favor of the universality of the creative process. That is, although creative products, such as a painting, a mathematical model or a poem, can be domain-specific, at the level of the creative process, the mental tools that lead to the generation of creative ideas are the same, be it in the arts or science. These mental tools are sometimes called intuitive tools of thinking. It is therefore not surprising that many of the most innovative scientists have serious hobbies or interests in artistic activities, and that some of the most innovative artists have an interest or hobbies in the sciences. 
      Root-Bernstein and colleagues' research is an important counterpoint to the claim by some psychologists that creativity is a domain-specific phenomenon. Through their research, Root-Bernstein and colleagues conclude that there are certain comprehensive thinking skills and tools that cross the barrier of different domains and can foster creative thinking: " who discuss integrating ideas from diverse fields as the basis of creative giftedness ask not 'who is creative?' but 'what is the basis of creative thinking?' From the polymathy perspective, giftedness is the ability to combine disparate (or even apparently contradictory) ideas, sets of problems, skills, talents, and knowledge in novel and useful ways. Polymathy is therefore the main source of any individual's creative potential".: 857  In "Life Stages of Creativity", Robert and Michèle Root-Bernstein suggest six typologies of creative life stages. These typologies based on real creative production records first published by Root-Bernstein, Bernstein, and Garnier (1993).  
      
       Type 1 represents people who specialize in developing one major talent early in life (e.g., prodigies) and successfully exploit that talent exclusively for the rest of their lives. 
       Type 2 individuals explore a range of different creative activities (e.g., through worldplay or a variety of hobbies) and then settle on exploiting one of these for the rest of their lives. 
       Type 3 people are polymathic from the outset and manage to juggle multiple careers simultaneously so that their creativity pattern is constantly varied. 
       Type 4 creators are recognized early for one major talent (e.g., math or music) but go on to explore additional creative outlets, diversifying their productivity with age. 
       Type 5 creators devote themselves serially to one creative field after another. 
       Type 6 people develop diversified creative skills early and then, like Type 5 individuals, explore these serially, one at a time.
       
      Finally, his studies suggest that understanding polymathy and learning from polymathic exemplars can help structure a new model of education that better promotes creativity and innovation: "we must focus education on principles, methods, and skills that will serve them  in learning and creating across many disciplines, multiple careers, and succeeding life stages".: 161   
      Peter Burke 
      Peter Burke, Professor Emeritus of Cultural History and Fellow of Emmanuel College at Cambridge, discussed the theme of polymathy in some of his works. He has presented a comprehensive historical overview of the ascension and decline of the polymath as, what he calls, an "intellectual species". 
      He observes that in ancient and medieval times, scholars did not have to specialize. However, from the 17th century on, the rapid rise of new knowledge in the Western world—both from the systematic investigation of the natural world and from the flow of information coming from other parts of the world—was making it increasingly difficult for individual scholars to master as many disciplines as before. Thus, an intellectual retreat of the polymath species occurred: "from knowledge in every  field to knowledge in several fields, and from making original contributions in many fields to a more passive consumption of what has been contributed by others".: 72  
      Given this change in the intellectual climate, it has since then been more common to find "passive polymaths", who consume knowledge in various domains but make their reputation in one single discipline, than "proper polymaths", who—through a feat of "intellectual heroism"—manage to make serious contributions to several disciplines. 
      However, Burke warns that in the age of specialization, polymathic people are more necessary than ever, both for synthesis—to paint the big picture—and for analysis. He says: "It takes a polymath to 'mind the gap' and draw attention to the knowledges that may otherwise disappear into the spaces between disciplines, as they are currently defined and organized".: 183  
      Finally, he suggests that governments and universities should nurture a habitat in which this "endangered species" can survive, offering students and scholars the possibility of interdisciplinary work.  
      Kaufman, Beghetto and colleagues 
      James C. Kaufman, from the Neag School of Education at the University of Connecticut, and Ronald A. Beghetto, from the same university, investigated the possibility that everyone could have the potential for polymathy as well as the issue of the domain-generality or domain-specificity of creativity. 
      Based on their earlier four-c model of creativity, Beghetto and Kaufman proposed a typology of polymathy, ranging from the ubiquitous mini-c polymathy to the eminent but rare Big-C polymathy, as well as a model with some requirements for a person (polymath or not) to be able to reach the highest levels of creative accomplishment. They account for three general requirements—intelligence, motivation to be creative and an environment that allows creative expression—that are needed for any attempt at creativity to succeed. Then, depending on the domain of choice, more specific abilities will be required. The more that one's abilities and interests match the requirements of a domain, the better. While some will develop their specific skills and motivations for specific domains, polymathic people will display intrinsic motivation (and the ability) to pursue a variety of subject matters across different domains. 
      Regarding the interplay of polymathy and education, they suggest that rather than asking whether every student has multicreative potential, educators might more actively nurture the multicreative potential of their students. As an example, the authors cite that teachers should encourage students to make connections across disciplines, use different forms of media to express their reasoning/understanding (e.g., drawings, movies, and other forms of visual media).  
      Bharath Sriraman 
      Bharath Sriraman, of the University of Montana, also investigated the role of polymathy in education. He poses that an ideal education should nurture talent in the classroom and enable individuals to pursue multiple fields of research and appreciate both the aesthetic and structural/scientific connections between mathematics, arts and the sciences. 
      In 2009, Sriraman published a paper reporting a 3-year study with 120 pre-service mathematics teachers and derived several implications for mathematics pre-service education as well as interdisciplinary education. He utilized a hermeneutic-phenomenological approach to recreate the emotions, voices and struggles of students as they tried to unravel Russell's paradox presented in its linguistic form. They found that those more engaged in solving the paradox also displayed more polymathic thinking traits. He concludes by suggesting that fostering polymathy in the classroom may help students change beliefs, discover structures and open new avenues for interdisciplinary pedagogy.  
      Michael Araki 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Developmental Model of Polymathy (DMP)
        
       
       
      Michael Araki is a professor at Universidade Federal Fluminense in Brazil. He sought to formalize in a general model how the development of polymathy takes place. His Developmental Model of Polymathy (DMP) is presented in a 2018 article with two main objectives:  
      
       organize the elements involved in the process of polymathy development into a structure of relationships that is wed to the approach of polymathy as a life project, and; 
       provide an articulation with other well-developed constructs, theories and models, especially from the fields of giftedness and education.
       
      The model, which was designed to reflect a structural model, has five major components:  
      
       polymathic antecedents 
       polymathic mediators 
       polymathic achievements 
       intrapersonal moderators 
       environmental moderators
       
      Regarding the definition of the term polymathy, the researcher, through an analysis of the extant literature, concluded that although there are a multitude of perspectives on polymathy, most of them ascertain that polymathy entails three core elements: breadth, depth and integration. 
      Breadth refers to comprehensiveness, extension and diversity of knowledge. It is contrasted with the idea of narrowness, specialization, and the restriction of one's expertise to a limited domain. The possession of comprehensive knowledge at very disparate areas is a hallmark of the greatest polymaths. 
      Depth refers to the vertical accumulation of knowledge and the degree of elaboration or sophistication of one's sets of one's conceptual network. Like Robert Root-Bernstein, Araki uses the concept of dilettancy as a contrast to the idea of profound learning that polymathy entails. 
      Integration, although not explicit in most definitions of polymathy, is also a core component of polymathy according to the author. Integration involves the capacity of connecting, articulating, concatenating or synthesizing different conceptual networks, which in non-polymathic persons might be segregated. In addition, integration can happen at the personality level, when the person is able to integrate their diverse activities in a synergic whole, which can also mean a psychic (motivational, emotional and cognitive) integration. 
      Finally, the author also suggests that, via a psychoeconomic approach, polymathy can be seen as a "life project". That is, depending on a person's temperament, endowments, personality, social situation and opportunities (or lack thereof), the project of a polymathic self-formation may present itself to the person as more or less alluring and more or less feasible to be pursued.  
      Related terms 
      Aside from "Renaissance man", similar terms in use are homo universalis (Latin) and uomo universale (Italian), which translate to "universal man". The related term "generalist"—contrasted with a "specialist"—is used to describe a person with a general approach to knowledge. 
      The term "universal genius" or "versatile genius" is also used, with Leonardo da Vinci as the prime example again. The term is used especially for people who made lasting contributions in at least one of the fields in which they were actively involved and when they took a universality of approach. 
      When a person is described as having encyclopedic knowledge, they exhibit a vast scope of knowledge. However, this designation may be anachronistic in the case of persons such as Eratosthenes, whose reputation for having encyclopedic knowledge predates the existence of any encyclopedic object.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Allamah 
        Amateur 
        Competent man 
        Creative class 
        Genius 
        Golden Age of Islam, many polymaths included 
        Interdisciplinarity 
        Jack of all trades, master of none 
        Multipotentiality 
        Opsimath 
        Philomath 
        Polyglotism 
        Polygraph (author) 
        Polymatheia – a muse of knowledge in Greek mythology
        
       
      References and notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Though numerous figures in history could be considered to be polymaths, they are not listed here, as they are not only too numerous to list, but also as the definition of any one figure as a polymath is disputable, due to the term's loosely-defined nature, there being no given set of characteristics outside of a person having a wide range of learning across a number of different disciplines; many also did not identify as polymaths, the term having only come into existence in the early 17th century.  
        
       
       
      
       
       
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "Ask The Philosopher: Tim Soutphommasane – The quest for renaissance man". The Australian. 10 April 2010. Retrieved 27 July 2018.  
         ^ a b 
           Murphy, Kathryn (2014). "Robert Burton and the problems of polymathy". Renaissance Studies. 28 (2): 279. doi:10.1111/rest.12054.  
         ^ 
           Burke, Peter (2011). "O polímata: a história cultural e social de um tipo intellectual". Leitura: Teoria &amp; Prática. ISSN&nbsp;0102-387X.  
         ^ 
           Wower, Johann (1665). De Polymathia tractatio: integri operis de studiis veterum.  
         ^ "polymath, n. and adj.". OED Online. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Accessed December 2019.  
         ^ "polymathist, n.". OED Online. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Accessed December 2019.  
         ^ "polyhistor, n.". OED Online. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Accessed December 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Renaissance man – Definition, Characteristics, &amp; Examples".  
         ^ 
           Harper, Daniel (2001). "Online Etymology Dictionary". Retrieved 5 December 2006.  
         ^ 
           Gardner, Helen (1970). Art through the Ages. New York, Harcourt, Brace &amp; World. pp.&nbsp;450–456. ISBN&nbsp;9780155037526.  
         ^ 
           Lewis, Charlton T.; Short, Charles (1966) , A Latin Dictionary, Oxford: Clarendon Press  
         ^ 
           "Renaissance man — Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary". M-w.com. Retrieved 6 April 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Oxford concise dictionary". Askoxford.com. Retrieved 6 April 2012.  
         ^ Shavinina, L. (2013). How to develop innovators? Innovation education for the gifted1. Gifted Education International, 29(1), 54–68.  
         ^ a b c Sriraman, B. (2009). Mathematical paradoxes as pathways into beliefs and polymathy: An experimental inquiry. ZDM, 41(1-2), 29–38.  
         ^ R. Root-Bernstein, 2009  
         ^ a b Root-Bernstein, R. (2015). Arts and crafts as adjuncts to STEM education to foster creativity in gifted and talented students. Asia Pacific Education Review, 16(2), 203–212.  
         ^ Root-Bernstein, R. (2009). Multiple giftedness in adults: The case of polymaths. In International handbook on giftedness (pp. 853–870). Springer, Dordrecht.  
         ^ a b Root-Bernstein, R. (2003). The art of innovation: Polymaths and universality of the creative process. In The international handbook on innovation (pp. 267–278).  
         ^ a b Root-Bernstein, R., Allen, L., Beach, L., Bhadula, R., Fast, J., Hosey, C., ... &amp; Podufaly, A. (2008). Arts foster scientific success: Avocations of nobel, national academy, royal society, and sigma xi members. Journal of Psychology of Science and Technology, 1(2), 51–63.  
         ^ Root-Bernstein, R., &amp; Root-Bernstein, M. (2011). Life stages of creativity.  
         ^ Root‐Bernstein, R. S., Bernstein, M., &amp; Gamier, H. (1993). Identification of scientists making long‐term, high‐impact contributions, with notes on their methods of working. Creativity Research Journal, 6(4), 329–343.  
         ^ Root-Bernstein, R. S., Bernstein, M., &amp; Garnier, H. (1995). Correlations between avocations, scientific style, work habits, and professional impact of scientists. Creativity Research Journal, 8(2), 115–137.  
         ^ R. Root-Bernstein, 2009  
         ^ Root-Bernstein, R., &amp; Root-Bernstein, M. (2017). People, passions, problems: The role of creative exemplars in teaching for creativity. In Creative contradictions in education (pp. 143–164). Springer, Cham.  
         ^ Burke, P. (2012). A social history of knowledge II: From the encyclopaedia to Wikipedia (Vol. 2). Polity.  
         ^ Burke, P. (2010). The polymath: A cultural and social history of an intellectual species. Explorations in cultural history: Essays for Peter McCaffery, 67–79.  
         ^ 
           Burke, Peter (2020). The Polymath: A Cultural History from Leonardo da Vinci to Susan Sontag. Yale University Press. p.&nbsp;352. ISBN&nbsp;9780300252088. Retrieved 16 November 2020.  
         ^ Burke, 2010  
         ^ Burke, 2012  
         ^ a b Kaufman, J. C., Beghetto, R. A., Baer, J., &amp; Ivcevic, Z. (2010). Creativity polymathy: What Benjamin Franklin can teach your kindergartener. Learning and Individual Differences, 20(4), 380-387.  
         ^ Kaufman, J. C., Beghetto, R. A., &amp; Baer, J. (2010). Finding young Paul Robeson: Exploring the question of creative polymathy. Innovations in educational psychology, 141–162.  
         ^ Kaufman, J. C., &amp; Beghetto, R. A. (2009). Beyond big and little: The four c model of creativity. Review of general psychology, 13(1), 1.  
         ^ a b Beghetto, R. A., &amp; Kaufman, J. C. (2009). Do we all have multicreative potential?. ZDM, 41(1–2), 39–44.  
         ^ Sriraman, B., &amp; Dahl, B. (2009). On bringing interdisciplinary ideas to gifted education. In International handbook on giftedness (pp. 1235–1256). Springer, Dordrecht.  
         ^ a b c d Araki, M. E. (2018). Polymathy: A new outlook. Journal of Genius and Eminence, 3(1), 66–82. Retrieved from: Researchgate.net  
         ^ Araki, M. E. (2015). Polymathic leadership: Theoretical foundation and construct development. (Master's thesis), Pontifícia Universidade Católica, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Retrieved from: researchgate.net  
         ^ Araki, M. E., &amp; Pires, P. (2019). &lt; Modern Literature on Polymathy: A Brief Review (January 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3313137  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Burns, Peter, "What makes a Renaissance Man?". 
       
        Carr, Edward (1 October 2009). "Last Days of the Polymath". Intelligent Life. The Economist Group. Retrieved 12 January 2017. 
       Edmonds, David (August 2017). Does the world need polymaths?, BBC. 
       Frost, Martin, "Polymath: A Renaissance Man". 
       Grafton, A, "The World of the Polyhistors: Humanism and Encyclopedism", Central European History, 18: 31–47. (1985). 
       Jaumann, Herbert, "Was ist ein Polyhistor? Gehversuche auf einem verlassenen Terrain", Studia Leibnitiana, 22: 76–89. (1990) . 
       
        Mikkelsen, Kenneth; Martin, Richard (2016). The Neo-Generalist: Where You Go is Who You Are. London: LID Publishing Ltd. ISBN&nbsp;9781910649558. Retrieved 6 August 2019. 
       Mirchandani, Vinnie, "The New Polymath: Profiles in Compound-Technology Innovations", John Wiley &amp; Sons. (2010). 
       
        Sher, Barbara (2007). Refuse to Choose!: A Revolutionary Program for Doing Everything that You Love. : Rodale. ISBN&nbsp;978-1594866265. 
       Twigger, Robert, "Anyone can be a Polymath" We live in a one-track world, but anyone can become a polymath – Robert Twigger | Aeon Essays. 
       
        Waqas, Ahmed (2019). The Polymath: Unlocking the Power of Human Versatility. West Sussex, UK: John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;9781119508489. Retrieved 6 August 2019. 
       Waquet, F, (ed.) "Mapping the World of Learning: The 'Polyhistor' of Daniel Georg Morhof" (2000). 
       Wiens, Kyle, "In defense of polymaths". 
       Brown, Vincent Polymath-Info Portal.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Polymath&amp;oldid=1068500914"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Age of Enlightenment
       Giftedness
       Renaissance
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from September 2018
       Articles containing Greek-language text
       Articles containing Latin-language text
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2021
       Articles containing Italian-language text
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       मराठी
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 28 January 2022, at 19:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
