
 
  
   
  Mind map - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Mind map 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Mind maps)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       This article is about the visual diagram. For the geographical concept, see Mental mapping.
       
      
       System or map used to visually organize information
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A mind map about the cubital fossa or elbow pit, including an illustration of the central concept
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Information mapping
        
        
          Topics and fields
        
        
          
          
           Business decision mapping 
           Data visualization 
           Graphic communication 
           Infographics 
           Information design 
           Knowledge visualization 
           Mental model 
           Morphological analysis 
           Visual analytics 
           Visual language
           
        
        
          Node–link approaches
        
        
          
          
           Argument map 
           Cladistics 
           Cognitive map 
           Concept lattice 
           Concept map 
           Conceptual graph 
           Decision tree 
           Dendrogram 
           Graph drawing 
           Hyperbolic tree 
           Hypertext 
           Issue map 
           Issue tree 
           Layered graph drawing 
           Mind map 
           Object-role modeling 
           Organizational chart 
           Radial tree 
           Semantic network 
           Sociogram 
           Timeline 
           Topic map 
           Tree structure
           
        
        
          See also
        
        
          
          
           Design rationale 
           Diagrammatic reasoning 
           Entity–relationship model 
           Geovisualization 
           List of concept- and mind-mapping software 
           Olog 
           Problem structuring methods 
           Semantic Web 
           Treemapping 
           Wicked problem
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      A mind map is a diagram used to visually organize information. A mind map is hierarchical and shows relationships among pieces of the whole. It is often created around a single concept, drawn as an image in the center of a blank page, to which associated representations of ideas such as images, words and parts of words are added. Major ideas are connected directly to the central concept, and other ideas branch out from those major ideas. 
      Mind maps can also be drawn by hand, either as "notes" during a lecture, meeting or planning session, for example, or as higher quality pictures when more time is available. Mind maps are considered to be a type of spider diagram. A similar concept in the 1970s was "idea sun bursting".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origins 
          
          1.1 Popularization 
           
        2 Differences from other visualizations 
        3 Research 
          
          3.1 Effectiveness 
          3.2 Features 
          3.3 Automatic creation 
           
        4 Tools 
        5 Gallery 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Origins 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Although the term "mind map" was first popularized by British popular psychology author and television personality Tony Buzan, the use of diagrams that visually "map" information using branching and radial maps traces back centuries. These pictorial methods record knowledge and model systems, and have a long history in learning, brainstorming, memory, visual thinking, and problem solving by educators, engineers, psychologists, and others. Some of the earliest examples of such graphical records were developed by Porphyry of Tyros, a noted thinker of the 3rd century, as he graphically visualized the concept categories of Aristotle. Philosopher Ramon Llull (1235–1315) also used such techniques. 
      The semantic network was developed in the late 1950s as a theory to understand human learning and developed further by Allan M. Collins and M. Ross Quillian during the early 1960s. Mind maps are similar in structure to concept maps, developed by learning experts in the 1970s, but differ in that mind maps are simplified by focusing around a single central key concept.  
      Popularization 
      Buzan's specific approach, and the introduction of the term "mind map", arose during a 1974 BBC TV series he hosted, called Use Your Head. In this show, and companion book series, Buzan promoted his conception of radial tree, diagramming key words in a colorful, radiant, tree-like structure. 
      Buzan says the idea was inspired by Alfred Korzybski's general semantics as popularized in science fiction novels, such as those of Robert A. Heinlein and A. E. van Vogt. He argues that while "traditional" outlines force readers to scan left to right and top to bottom, readers actually tend to scan the entire page in a non-linear fashion. Buzan's treatment also uses then-popular assumptions about the functions of cerebral hemispheres in order to explain the claimed increased effectiveness of mind mapping over other forms of note making.  
      Differences from other visualizations 
      
       Concept maps: Mind maps differ from concept maps in that mind maps are based on a radial hierarchy (tree structure) denoting relationships with a central concept, whereas concept maps can be more free-form, based on connections between concepts in more diverse patterns. Also, concept maps typically have text labels on the links between nodes. However, either can be part of a larger personal knowledge base system. 
       Modeling graphs or graphical modeling languages: There is no rigorous right or wrong with mind maps, which rely on the arbitrariness of mnemonic associations to aid people's information organization and memory. In contrast, a modeling graph such as a UML diagram structures elements using a precise standardized iconography to aid the design of systems.
       
      Research 
      Effectiveness 
      Cunningham (2005) conducted a user study in which 80% of the students thought "mindmapping helped them understand concepts and ideas in science". Other studies also report some subjective positive effects on the use of mind maps. Positive opinions on their effectiveness, however, were much more prominent among students of art and design than in students of computer and information technology, with 62.5% vs 34% (respectively) agreeing that they were able to understand concepts better with mind mapping software. Farrand, Hussain, and Hennessy (2002) found that spider diagrams (similar to concept maps) had limited, but significant, impact on memory recall in undergraduate students (a 10% increase over baseline for a 600-word text only) as compared to preferred study methods (a 6% increase over baseline). This improvement was only robust after a week for those in the diagram group and there was a significant decrease in motivation compared to the subjects' preferred methods of note taking. A meta study about concept mapping concluded that concept mapping is more effective than "reading text passages, attending lectures, and participating in class discussions". The same study also concluded that concept mapping is slightly more effective "than other constructive activities such as writing summaries and outlines". However, results were inconsistent, with the authors noting "significant heterogeneity was found in most subsets". In addition, they concluded that low-ability students may benefit more from mind mapping than high-ability students.  
      Features 
      Joeran Beel and Stefan Langer conducted a comprehensive analysis of the content of mind maps. They analysed 19,379 mind maps from 11,179 users of the mind mapping applications SciPlore MindMapping (now Docear) and MindMeister. Results include that average users create only a few mind maps (mean=2.7), average mind maps are rather small (31 nodes) with each node containing about three words (median). However, there were exceptions. One user created more than 200 mind maps, the largest mind map consisted of more than 50,000 nodes and the largest node contained ~7,500 words. The study also showed that between different mind mapping applications (Docear vs MindMeister) significant differences exist related to how users create mind maps.  
      Automatic creation 
      There have been some attempts to create mind maps automatically. Brucks &amp; Schommer created mind maps automatically from full-text streams. Rothenberger et al. extracted the main story of a text and presented it as mind map. And there is a patent about automatically creating sub-topics in mind maps.  
      Tools 
      Mind-mapping software can be used to organize large amounts of information, combining spatial organization, dynamic hierarchical structuring and node folding. Software packages can extend the concept of mind-mapping by allowing individuals to map more than thoughts and ideas with information on their computers and the Internet, like spreadsheets, documents, Internet sites and images. It has been suggested that mind-mapping can improve learning/study efficiency up to 15% over conventional note-taking.  
      Gallery 
      The following dozen examples of mind maps show the range of styles that a mind map may take, from hand-drawn to computer-generated and from mostly text to highly illustrated. Despite their stylistic differences, all of the examples share a tree structure that hierarchically connects sub-topics to a main topic.  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
         
       
      See also 
      
       
        
        Education portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Exquisite corpse 
        Graph (discrete mathematics) 
        Idea 
        Mental literacy 
        Nodal organizational structure 
        Personal wiki 
        Rhizome (philosophy) 
        Social map 
        Spider mapping
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Carolyn H. Hopper, Practicing College Learning Strategies, 7th Edition, ISBN&nbsp;9781305109599, Ch. 7  
        ^ 
          "Mind Map noun - definition in the British English Dictionary &amp; Thesaurus - Cambridge Dictionaries Online". Dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2013-07-10.  
        ^ 
          "Who invented mind mapping". Mind-mapping.org. Retrieved 2013-07-10.  
        ^ 
          "Roots of visual mapping - The mind-mapping.org Blog". Mind-mapping.org. 2004-05-23. Retrieved 2013-07-10.  
        ^ 
          Buzan, Tony (1974). Use Your Head. London: BBC Books.  
        ^ 
          "Buzan claims mind mapping his invention in interview". KnowledgeBoard. Archived from the original on 2010-02-13.  
        ^ 
          Lanzing, Jan (January 1998). "Concept mapping: tools for echoing the minds eye". Journal of Visual Literacy. 18 (1): 1–14 (4). doi:10.1080/23796529.1998.11674524. The difference between concept maps and mind maps is that a mind map has only one main concept, while a concept map may have several. This means that a mind map can be represented in a hierarchical tree structure.  
        ^ 
          Romance, Nancy R.; Vitale, Michael R. (Spring 1999). "Concept mapping as a tool for learning: broadening the framework for student-centered instruction". College Teaching. 47 (2): 74–79 (78). doi:10.1080/87567559909595789. JSTOR&nbsp;27558942. Shavelson et al. (1994) identified a number of variations of the general technique presented here for developing concept maps. These include whether (1) the map is hierarchical or free-form in nature, (2) the concepts are provided with or determined by the learner, (3) the students are provided with or develop their own structure for the map, (4) there is a limit on the number of lines connecting concepts, and (5) the connecting links must result in the formation of a complete sentence between two nodes.  
        ^ 
          Glennis Edge Cunningham (2005). Mindmapping: Its Effects on Student Achievement in High School Biology (Ph.D.). The University of Texas at Austin.  
        ^ a b 
          Brian Holland; Lynda Holland; Jenny Davies (2004). "An investigation into the concept of mind mapping and the use of mind mapping software to support and improve student academic performance". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          D'Antoni, A.V.; Zipp, G.P. (2006). "Applications of the Mind Map Learning Technique in Chiropractic Education: A Pilot Study and Literature". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ a b 
          Farrand, P.; Hussain, F.; Hennessy, E. (2002). "The efficacy of the mind map study technique". Medical Education. 36 (5): 426–431. doi:10.1046/j.1365-2923.2002.01205.x. PMID&nbsp;12028392. S2CID&nbsp;29278241. Archived from the original on 2013-01-05. Retrieved 2009-02-16.  
        ^ 
          Nesbit, J.C.; Adesope, O.O. (2006). "Learning with concept and knowledge maps: A meta-analysis". Review of Educational Research. Sage Publications. 76 (3): 413–448. doi:10.3102/00346543076003413. S2CID&nbsp;122082944.  
        ^ 
          Joeran Beel, Stefan Langer (2011). "An Exploratory Analysis of Mind Maps" (PDF). Proceedings of the 11th ACM Symposium on Document Engineering (DocEng'11). ACM. Retrieved 1 November 2013.  
        ^ 
          Claudine Brucks, Christoph Schommer (2008). "Assembling Actor-based Mind-Maps from Text Stream". arXiv:0810.4616 .  
        ^ 
          Rothenberger, T; Oez, S; Tahirovic, E; Schommer, Christoph (2008). "Figuring out Actors in Text Streams: Using Collocations to establish Incremental Mind-maps". arXiv:0803.2856. Bibcode:2008arXiv0803.2856R. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          Robert Plotkin (2009). "Software tool for creating outlines and mind maps that generates subtopics automatically". USPTO Application: 20090119584.  
        ^ 
          Santos, Devin (15 February 2013). "Top 10 Totally Free Mind Mapping Software Tools". IMDevin. Archived from the original on 7 August 2013. Retrieved 10 July 2013.  
       
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Mind maps at Wikimedia Commons
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Group creativity techniques
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Brainstorming 
             Nominal group technique 
             Mind map 
             Affinity diagram 
             Multiple-criteria decision analysis
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Strategic planning tools
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Ansoff matrix 
             Balanced scorecard 
             Competitor analysis 
             Growth–share matrix 
             Mind map 
             PEST analysis 
             Porter's five forces analysis 
             Scenario planning 
             SWOT analysis
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Argument mapping, concept mapping, and mind mapping software
           
         
         
          FOSS
          
            
            
             Dia 
             LibreOffice Draw 
             PGF/TikZ 
             Toolkit for Conceptual Modeling 
             View Your Mind (VYM) 
             Java-based 
              
               Araucaria 
               Compendium 
               FreeMind 
               Freeplane 
               PlantUML 
               VUE 
               XMind
              
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Proprietary
          
           
           
            
             
              Desktop apps
              
                
                
                 3D Topicscape 
                 CmapTools 
                 ConceptDraw DIAGRAM 
                 ConceptDraw MINDMAP 
                 Diagrams.net 
                 Microsoft Visio 
                 MindManager 
                 MindMapper 
                 JGraph 
                 OmniGraffle 
                 Qiqqa 
                 Semantica 
                 SmartDraw 
                 TheBrain 
                 Tinderbox 
                 Visual Mind 
                 XMind Pro 
                 yEd
                 
               
             
             
              Web apps
              
                
                
                 Coggle 
                 Debategraph 
                 Diagrams.net 
                 Lucidchart 
                 Mind42 
                 MindMeister 
                 MindMup 
                 Mindomo 
                 Prezi 
                 SmartDraw 
                 SpicyNodes
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Categories 
              
               Argument mapping 
               Concept mapping software 
               Mind mapping software 
               Visual thinking 
               Knowledge representation
               
              List
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mind_map&amp;oldid=1068783724"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Creativity techniques
       Strategic management
       Business planning
       Business terms
       Knowledge representation
       Games of mental skill
       Design
       Educational technology
       Diagrams
       Note-taking
       Reading (process)
       Zoomable user interfaces
       Educational devices
       Methodology
       1970s neologisms
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from May 2017
       All articles needing additional references
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles containing video clips
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Български
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       Kurdî
       Magyar
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 January 2022, at 05:34&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
