
 
  
   
  Theodicy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Theodicy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Theological attempt to resolve the problem of evil
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Gottfried Leibniz coined the term "theodicy" in an attempt to justify God's existence in light of the apparent imperfections of the world.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Theism
        
        
          
          
           
            Types of faith
           
            
            
             Agnosticism 
             Apatheism 
             Atheism 
             Deism 
             Henotheism 
             Ietsism 
             Ignosticism 
             Monotheism 
             Monism 
             Dualism 
             Monolatry 
             Kathenotheism 
             Omnism 
             Pandeism 
             Panentheism 
             Pantheism 
             Polytheism 
             Transtheism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Specific conceptions
           
            
            
             Creator 
             Demiurge 
             Deus 
             Father 
             Form of the Good 
             God 
             Great Architect 
             Monad 
             Mother 
             Summum bonum 
             Supreme Being 
             Sustainer 
             The Lord 
             Trinity 
             Tawhid 
             Ditheism 
             Monism 
             Personal 
             Unitarianism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            In particular religions
           
           
            
            
             
              
                Abrahamic
              
              
                
                
                 Judaism 
                 Christianity 
                 Islam 
                 Baháʼí Faith 
                 Mormonism 
                 Mandaeism 
                 Samaritanism
                 
              
              
                Indo-Iranian
              
              
                
                
                 Hinduism 
                 Buddhism 
                 Jainism 
                 Sikhism 
                 Zoroastrianism
                 
              
              
                Chinese
              
              
                
                
                 Tian 
                 Shangdi 
                 Hongjun Laozu
                 
              
             
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Attributes
           
            
            
             Eternalness 
             Existence 
             Gender 
             Names&nbsp;("God") 
             Omnibenevolence 
             Omnipotence 
             Omnipresence 
             Omniscience
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            
             
              Experiences
              Practices
             
            
           
            
            
             Belief 
             Esotericism 
             Faith 
             Fideism 
             Gnosis 
             Hermeticism 
             Metaphysics 
             Mysticism 
             Prayer 
             Revelation 
             Worship
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related topics
           
            
            
             Euthyphro dilemma 
             God complex 
             God gene 
             Theology 
             Ontology 
             Problem of evil&nbsp;(theodicy) 
             Religion 
              
               philosophy 
               texts
               
             Portrayals of God in popular media 
             &nbsp;Religion portal
            
           
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on the
        
        
         Philosophy of religion
        
        
          
          
           
            Religious concepts
           
            
            
             Afterlife 
             Apophatism 
             Cataphatism 
             Eschatology 
             Enlightenment 
             Intelligent design 
             Miracle 
             Mysticism 
             Religious belief 
             Reincarnation 
             Religious faith 
             Scripture (religious text) 
             Soul 
             Spirit 
             Theological veto
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Challenges
           
           
            
            
             
              
                
                
                 Ethical egoism 
                 Euthyphro dilemma 
                 Logical positivism 
                 Religious language 
                 Verificationism 
                  
                   eschatological
                  
                 
              
              
                Problem of evil
              
              
                
                
                 Theodicy 
                  
                   Augustinian 
                   Irenaean
                   
                 Best of all possible worlds 
                 Inconsistent triad 
                 Natural evil
                 
              
             
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            God
           
           
            
            
             
              
                Conceptions
              
              
                
                
                 Aristotelian 
                 Brahman 
                 Demiurge 
                 Divinely simple 
                 Form of the Good 
                 Holy Spirit 
                 Maltheist 
                 Pandeist 
                 Personal 
                 Process-theological 
                 Summum bonum 
                 Supreme Being 
                 Unmoved mover
                 
              
              
                Existence
              
              
                
                
                
                 
                  
                    Arguments for
                  
                  
                    
                    
                     Beauty 
                     Christological 
                      
                       Trilemma 
                       Resurrection
                       
                     Consciousness 
                     Cosmological 
                      
                       kalām 
                       contingency 
                       metaphysical
                       
                     Degree 
                     Desire 
                     Experience 
                     Existential choice 
                     Fine-tuned universe 
                     Love 
                     Miracles 
                     Morality 
                     Mystical idealism 
                     Natural law 
                     Necessary existent 
                      
                       Seddiqin
                       
                     Nyayakusumanjali 
                     Ontological 
                      
                       Gödel 
                       Modal 
                       Anselm 
                       Mulla Sadra 
                       Spinoza
                       
                     Pascal's wager 
                     Reason 
                     Reformed 
                     Teleological 
                      
                       Intelligent design 
                       Natural law 
                       Watchmaker 
                        
                         Junkyard
                        
                       
                     Trademark 
                     Transcendental
                     
                  
                  
                    Arguments against
                  
                  
                    
                    
                     747 gambit 
                     Wager 
                     Creator of God 
                     Evil God 
                     Free will 
                     Hell 
                     Inconsistency 
                     Nonbelief 
                     Noncognitivism 
                     Omnipotence paradox 
                     Poor design 
                     Russell's teapot
                     
                  
                 
                 
              
              
                By religion
              
              
                
                
                 Abrahamic 
                  
                   Bahá'í 
                   Christianity 
                   Islam 
                   Judaism 
                   Mormonism 
                   Mandaeism
                   
                 Buddhism 
                 Hinduism 
                 Jainism 
                 Sikhism 
                 Wicca
                 
              
             
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Theories of religion
           
            
            
             Acosmism 
             Agnosticism 
             Animism 
             Antireligion 
             Atheism 
             Creationism 
             Dharmism 
             Deism 
             Divine command theory 
             Dualism 
             Esotericism 
             Exclusivism 
             Existentialism 
              
               agnostic 
               atheist 
               Christian
               
             Feminist 
             Fundamentalism 
             Gnosticism 
             Henotheism 
             Humanism 
              
               Christian 
               religious 
               secular
               
             Inclusivism 
             Monism 
             Monotheism 
             Mysticism 
             Naturalism 
              
               humanistic 
               metaphysical 
               religious
               
             New Age 
             Nondualism 
             Nontheism 
             Pandeism 
             Panentheism 
             Pantheism 
             Perennialism 
             Polytheism 
             Process 
             Spiritualism 
             Shamanism 
             Taoic 
             Theism 
             Transcendentalism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophers of religion
           
           
            
            
             
              
                Irreligious
              
              
                
                
                 de Beauvoir 
                 Camus 
                 Critchley 
                 Dawkins 
                 Dennett 
                 Drange 
                 Draper 
                 Epicurus 
                 Foucault 
                 Goldstein 
                 Heraclitus 
                 Harris 
                 Hecht 
                 Hitchens 
                 Hume 
                 Kenny 
                 Lucretius 
                 Łyszczyński 
                 Martin 
                 Marx 
                 Mill 
                 Nietzsche 
                 Quine 
                 Rand 
                 Russell 
                 Sartre 
                 Schopenhauer 
                 Searle 
                 Singer 
                 Spinoza 
                 Voltaire
                 
              
              
                Buddhist
              
              
                
                
                 Nagarjuna 
                 Vasubandhu 
                 Buddhaghosa 
                 Dignāga 
                 Dharmakirti 
                 Jayatilleke 
                 Premasiri 
                 Ñāṇavīra 
                 Nakamura 
                 Nishitani 
                 Nishida 
                 Keown 
                 Loy 
                 Thompson 
                 Smith 
                 Westerhoff 
                 Garfield
                 
              
              
                Christian
              
              
                
                
                 Adams 
                 Alston 
                 Aquinas 
                 Augustine 
                 Bell 
                 Brümmer 
                 Burns 
                 Caird 
                 Craig 
                 Dalferth 
                 Eliade 
                 Evans 
                 Gamwell 
                 Heidegger 
                 Hick 
                 Kierkegaard 
                 Kretzmann 
                 Leftow 
                 McCabe 
                 McIntyre 
                 Merricks 
                 Miceli 
                 Moser 
                 Newman 
                 Otto 
                 Paley 
                 Schaeffer 
                 de Silva 
                 Smith 
                 Stewart 
                 Swinburne 
                 Taliaferro 
                 Tamer 
                 Thiselton 
                 Ward 
                 White 
                 Wiebe 
                 Wollaston 
                 Yandell
                 
              
              
                Islamic
              
              
                
                
                 al-Amiri 
                 al-Attas 
                 Averroes 
                 Avicenna 
                 Badawi 
                 Brethren of Purity 
                 Damad 
                 al-Farabi 
                 al-Ghazali 
                 Ibn Arabi 
                 Ibn Bajjah 
                 Ibn Masarra 
                 Ibn Miskawayh 
                 M. Iqbal 
                 al-Kindi 
                 Nasr 
                 Ramadan 
                 al-Razi 
                 Sadra 
                 al-Shahrastani 
                 Shariati 
                 Suhrawardi 
                 Shaykh Tusi 
                 Waliullah
                 
              
              
                Jewish
              
              
                
                
                 Buber 
                 Heschel 
                 Maimonides 
                 Mendelssohn 
                 Schwarzschild 
                 Soloveitchik
                 
              
              
                Hindu
              
              
                
                
                 Adi Shankara 
                 Ramanuja 
                 Madhvacharya 
                 Udayana 
                 Kumārila Bhaṭṭa 
                 Vācaspati Miśra 
                 Jayanta Bhatta 
                 Abhinavagupta 
                 Raghunatha Siromani 
                 Sri Aurobindo 
                 Ramana Maharshi 
                 J. Krishnamurti 
                 Radhakrishnan 
                 BK Matilal 
                 KC Bhattacharya
                 
              
              
                Others
              
              
                
                
                 Almaas 
                 Anderson 
                 Emmet 
                 Esaulov 
                 Ferré 
                 Forman 
                 Glogau 
                 Hartshorne 
                 Hatano 
                 Hatcher 
                 Klostermaier 
                 Kvanvig 
                 Martinich 
                 Meltzer 
                 Runzo 
                 Smart 
                 Vallicella 
                 Zank 
                 Zimmerman
                 
              
             
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related topics
           
            
            
             Criticism of religion 
             Ethics in religion 
             Exegesis 
             Faith and rationality 
             History of religions 
             Religion and science 
             Religious philosophy 
             Theology
            
           
           
        
        
          Philosophy of religion article index
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Theodicy (/θiːˈɒdɪsi/) means vindication of God. It is to answer the question of why a good God permits the manifestation of evil, thus resolving the issue of the problem of evil. Some theodicies also address the evidential problem of evil by attempting "to make the existence of an all-knowing, all-powerful and all-good or omnibenevolent God consistent with the existence of evil or suffering in the world". Unlike a defense, which tries to demonstrate that God's existence is logically possible in the light of evil, a theodicy attempts to provide a framework wherein God's existence is also plausible. The German philosopher and mathematician Gottfried Leibniz coined the term "theodicy" in 1710 in his work Théodicée, though various responses to the problem of evil had been previously proposed. The British philosopher John Hick traced the history of moral theodicy in his 1966 work, Evil and the God of Love, identifying three major traditions:  
      
       the Plotinian theodicy, named after Plotinus 
       the Augustinian theodicy, which Hick based on the writings of Augustine of Hippo 
       the Irenaean theodicy, which Hick developed, based on the thinking of St. Irenaeus
       
      The problem was also analyzed by pre-modern theologians and philosophers in the Islamic world. German philosopher Max Weber (1864–1920) saw theodicy as a social problem, based on the human need to explain puzzling aspects of the world. Sociologist Peter L. Berger (1929–2017) argued that religion arose out of a need for social order, and an “implicit theodicy of all social order” developed to sustain it. Following the Holocaust, a number of Jewish theologians developed a new response to the problem of evil, sometimes called anti-theodicy, which maintains that God cannot be meaningfully justified. As an alternative to theodicy, a defense has been proposed by the American philosopher Alvin Plantinga, which is focused on showing the logical possibility of God's existence. Plantinga's version of the free-will defence argued that the coexistence of God and evil is not logically impossible, and that free will further explains the existence of evil without threatening the existence of God. 
      Similar to a theodicy, a cosmodicy attempts to justify the fundamental goodness of the universe, and an anthropodicy attempts to justify the goodness of humanity.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Definition and etymology 
        2 Reasons for theodicy 
        3 History 
          
          3.1 Ancient religions 
            
            3.1.1 Biblical theodicy 
             
          3.2 Augustinian theodicy 
          3.3 Irenaean theodicy 
          3.4 Origenian theodicy 
          3.5 Relatively minor theodicies 
          3.6 Islamic world 
           
        4 Alternatives 
          
          4.1 Jewish anti-theodicy 
          4.2 Christian alternatives to theodicy 
          4.3 Free-will defense 
          4.4 Cosmodicy and anthropodicy 
            
            4.4.1 Essential kenosis 
             
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Bibliography 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Definition and etymology 
      As defined by Alvin Plantinga, theodicy is the "answer to the question of why God permits evil". Theodicy is defined as a theological construct that attempts to vindicate God in response to the evidential problem of evil that seems inconsistent with the existence of an omnipotent and omnibenevolent deity. Another definition of theodicy is the vindication of divine goodness and providence in view of the existence of evil. The word theodicy derives from the Greek words Θεός Τheos and δίκη dikē. Theos is translated "God" and dikē can be translated as either "trial" or "judgement". Thus, theodicy literally means "justifying God". 
      In the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Nick Trakakis proposed an additional three requirements which must be contained within a theodicy:  
      
       Common sense views of the world 
       Widely held historical and scientific opinion 
       Plausible moral principles
       
      As a response to the problem of evil, a theodicy is distinct from a defence. A defence attempts to demonstrate that the occurrence of evil does not contradict God's existence, but it does not propose that rational beings are able to understand why God permits evil. A theodicy seeks to show that it is reasonable to believe in God despite evidence of evil in the world and offers a framework which can account for why evil exists. A theodicy is often based on a prior natural theology, which attempts to prove the existence of God, and seeks to demonstrate that God's existence remains probable after the problem of evil is posed by giving a justification for God's permitting evil to happen. Defenses propose solutions to the logical problem of evil, while theodicies attempt to answer the evidential (inductive) problem.  
      
      
       It is important to note that there are at least two concepts of evil: a broad concept and a narrow concept. The broad concept picks out any bad state of affairs...  has been divided into two categories: natural evil and moral evil. Natural evils are bad states of affairs which do not result from the intentions or negligence of moral agents. Hurricanes and toothaches are examples of natural evils. By contrast, moral evils do result from the intentions or negligence of moral agents. Murder and lying are examples of moral evils. Evil in the broad sense, which includes all natural and moral evils, tends to be the sort of evil referenced in theological contexts... he narrow concept of evil picks out only the most morally despicable...  involves moral condemnation,  is appropriately ascribed only to moral agents and their actions.
       
      Philosopher Susan Neiman says "a crime against humanity is something for which we have procedures, ...  can be ... fit into the rest of our experience. To call an action evil is to suggest that it cannot ...": 8  
      Marxism, "selectively elaborating Hegel", defines evil in terms of its effect.: 44  Philosopher John Kekes says the effect of evil must include actual harm that "interferes with the functioning of a person as a full-fledged agent". (Kekes 1998, 217) Christian philosophers and theologians such as Richard Swinburne and N. T. Wright also define evil in terms of effect saying an "...act is objectively good (or bad) if it is good (or bad) in its consequences".: 12  Hinduism defines evil in terms of its effect saying "the evils that afflict people (and indeed animals) in the present life are the effects of wrongs committed in a previous life.": 34  Some contemporary philosophers argue a focus on the effects of evil is inadequate as a definition since evil can observe without actively causing the harm, and it is still evil. 
      Pseudo-Dionysus defines evil by those aspects that show an absence of good.: 37  Writers in this tradition saw things as belonging to 'forms' and evil as an absence of being a good example of their form: as a deficit of goodness where goodness ought to have been present. In this same line of thinking, St. Augustine also defined evil as an absence of good, as did theologian and monk Thomas Aquinas who said: "... a man is called bad insofar as he lacks a virtue, and an eye is called bad insofar as it lacks the power of sight.": 37  Bad as an absence of good resurfaces in Hegel, Heidegger and Barth. Very similar are the Neoplatonists, such as Plotinus and contemporary philosopher Denis O'Brien, who say evil is a privation. 
      Immanuel Kant was the first to offer a purely secular theory of evil, giving an evaluative definition of evil based on its cause as having a will that is not fully good. Kant has been an important influence on philosophers like Hannah Arendt, Claudia Card, and Richard Bernstein. "...Hannah Arendt... uses the term  to denote a new form of wrongdoing which cannot be captured by other moral concepts." Claudia Card says evil is excessive wrongdoing; others like Hillel Steiner say evil is qualitatively not quantitatively distinct from mere wrongdoing. 
      Locke, Hobbes and Leibniz define good and evil in terms of pleasure and pain. Others such as Richard Swinburne find that definition inadequate, saying, "the good of individual humans...consists...in their having free will...the ability to develop ...character..., to show courage and loyalty, to love, to be of use, to contemplate beauty and discover truth... All that ...cannot be achieved without ... suffering along the way.": 4   
      
      
       Most theorists writing about evil believe that evil action requires a certain sort of motivation... the desire to cause harm, or to do wrong,...pleasure (Steiner 2002), the desire to annihilate all being (Eagleton 2010), or the destruction of others for its own sake (Cole 2006). When evil is restricted to actions that follow from these sorts of motivations, theorists sometimes say that their subject is pure, radical, diabolical, or monstrous evil. This suggests that their discussion is restricted to a type, or form, of evil and not to evil per se.
       
      Some theorists define evil by what emotions are connected to it. "For example, Laurence Thomas believes that evildoers take delight in causing harm or feel hatred toward their victims (Thomas 1993, 76–77)." Buddhism defines various types of evil, one type defines as behavior resulting from a failure to emotionally detach from the world. 
      Christian theologians generally define evil in terms of both human responsibility and the nature of God: "If we take the essentialist view of Christian ethics... evil is anything contrary to God's good nature...(character or attributes)." The Judaic view, while acknowledging the difference between the human and divine perspective of evil, is rooted in the nature of creation itself and the limitation inherent in matter's capacity to be perfected; the action of free will includes the potential for perfection from individual effort and leaves the responsibility for evil in human hands.: 70  
      " deeply central to the whole tradition of Christian (and other western) religion that God is loving toward his creation and that involves him behaving in morally good ways toward it.": 3  Within Christianity "God is supposed to be in some way personal... a being who is essentially eternal, omnipotent, omniscient, Creator and sustainer of the universe, and perfectly good. An omnipotent being is one who can do anything logically possible... such a being could not make me exist and not exist at the same time but he could eliminate the stars... An omniscient being is one who knows everything logically possible for him to know... he will not necessarily know everything that will happen  unless it is predetermined that it will happen...": 3–15  "God's perfect goodness is moral goodness.": 15  "Western religion has always held that there is a deep problem about why there is pain and suffering—which there would not be if God were not supposed to be morally good... a personal being who was not morally good would not be the great being God is supposed to be...  the existence (or not) of the sort of God with which Western religion is concerned, this understanding of the definition of God must stand.": 16   
      Reasons for theodicy 
      The German philosopher Max Weber interpreted theodicy as a social problem and viewed theodicy as a "problem of meaning". Weber argued that, as human society became increasingly rational, the need to explain why good people suffered and evil people prospered became more important because religion casts the world as a "meaningful cosmos". Weber framed the problem of evil as the dilemma that the good can suffer and the evil can prosper, which became more important as religion became more sophisticated. He identified two purposes of theodicy: to explain why good people suffer (a theodicy of suffering), and why people prosper (a theodicy of good fortune). A theodicy of good fortune seeks to justify the good fortune of people in society; Weber believed that those who are successful are not satisfied unless they can justify why they deserve to be successful. For theodicies of suffering, Weber argued that three different kinds of theodicy emerged—predestination, dualism, and karma—all of which attempt to satisfy the human need for meaning, and he believed that the quest for meaning, when considered in light of suffering, becomes the problem of suffering. 
      The sociologist Peter L. Berger characterised religion as the human attempt to build order out of a chaotic world. He believed that humans could not accept that anything in the world was meaningless and saw theodicy as an assertion that the cosmos has meaning and order, despite evidence to the contrary. Berger presented an argument similar to that of Weber, but suggested that the need for theodicy arose primarily out of the situation of human society. He believed that theodicies existed to allow individuals to transcend themselves, denying the individual in favour of the social order. 
      The philosopher Richard Swinburne says "most theists need a theodicy,  an account of reasons why God might allow evil to occur. Without a theodicy evil counts against the existence of God.": 2   
      History 
      The term theodicy was coined by the German philosopher Gottfried Leibniz in his 1710 work, written in French, Essais de Théodicée sur la bonté de Dieu, la liberté de l'homme et l'origine du mal (Theodicy: Essays on the Goodness of God, the Freedom of Man and the Origin of Evil). Leibniz's Théodicée was a response to skeptical Protestant philosopher Pierre Bayle, who wrote in his work Dictionnaire Historique et Critique that, after rejecting three attempts to solve it, he saw no rational solution to the problem of evil. Bayle argued that, because the Bible asserts the coexistence of God and evil, this state of affairs must simply be accepted. 
      French philosopher Voltaire criticised Leibniz's concept of theodicy in his Poème sur le désastre de Lisbonne (Poem on the Lisbon disaster), suggesting that the massive destruction of innocent lives caused by the Lisbon earthquake demonstrated that God was not providing the "best of all possible worlds". Voltaire also includes the earthquake/theodicy theme in his novel Candide. 
      In The Catholic Encyclopedia (1914), Constantine Kempf argued that, following Leibniz's work, philosophers called their works on the problem of evil "theodicies", and philosophy about God was brought under the discipline of theodicy. He argued that theodicy began to include all of natural theology, meaning that theodicy came to consist of the human knowledge of God through the systematic use of reason. 
      In 1966, British philosopher John Hick published Evil and the God of Love, in which he surveyed various Christian responses to the problem of evil, before developing his own. In his work, Hick identified and distinguished between three types of theodicy: Plotinian, which was named after Plotinus, Augustinian, which had dominated Western Christianity for many centuries, and Irenaean, which was developed by the Eastern Church Father Irenaeus, a version of which Hick subscribed to himself. 
      In his dialogue "Is God a Taoist?", published in 1977 in his book The Tao is Silent, Raymond Smullyan claims to prove that it is logically impossible to have sentient beings without allowing "evil", even for God, just as it is impossible for him to create a triangle in the Euclidean plane having an angular sum other than 180°. So the capability of feeling implies free will, which in turn may produce "evil", understood here as hurting other sentient beings. The problem of evil happening to good or innocent people is not addressed directly here, but both reincarnation and karma are hinted at.  
      Ancient religions 
      "Writings and discourses on theodicy by Jews, Greeks, Christians, and Eastern religions have graced our planet for thousands of years." In the Middle Kingdom of Egypt (2000 BC to 1700 BC) as “in Ancient Mesopotamian and Israelite literature,” theodicy was an important issue. 
      Philip Irving Mitchell of the Dallas Baptist University notes that some philosophers have cast the pursuit of theodicy as a modern one, as earlier scholars used the problem of evil to support the existence of one particular god over another, explain wisdom, or explain a conversion, rather than to justify God's goodness. Sarah Iles Johnston argues that ancient civilizations, such as the ancient Mesopotamians, Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians held polytheistic beliefs that may have enabled them to deal with the concept of theodicy differently. These religions taught the existence of many gods and goddesses who controlled various aspects of daily life. These early religions may have avoided the question of theodicy by endowing their deities with the same flaws and jealousies that plagued humanity. No one god or goddess was fundamentally good or evil; this explained that bad things could happen to good people if they angered a deity because the gods could exercise the same free will that humankind possesses. Such religions taught that some gods were more inclined to be helpful and benevolent, while others were more likely to be spiteful and aggressive. In this sense, the evil gods could be blamed for misfortune, while the good gods could be petitioned with prayer and sacrifices to make things right. There was still a sense of justice in that individuals who were right with the gods could avoid punishment. 
      The "Epicurean trilemma" however was already raised c. 300&nbsp;BC by Epicurus: according to David Hume in 1779. According to Hume, the trilemma describe the problem of reconciling an omnipotent deity with their benevolence and the existence of evil. However, if Epicurus did write a discussion on the specific problems that Hume attributes to him, it would not have been tied with the question of an omnibenevolent and omniscient God, as Hume assumes (for Hume does not cite, nor make any implication that he had knowledge of Epicurus's writings on this matter that held any greater weight than academic hearsay or legend).  
      Biblical theodicy 
      
      
       Main article: Theodicy and the Bible
       
      The biblical account of the justification of evil and suffering in the presence of God has both similarities and contrasts in the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. For the Hebrew Bible, the Book of Job is often quoted as the authoritative source of discussion.: Chapter 3:Job   
      
      
       The author of Job seeks to expand the understanding of divine justice... beyond mere retribution, to include a system of divine sovereignty  the King has the right to test His subject's loyalty... The book of Job corrects the rigid and overly simplistic doctrine of retribution in attributing suffering to sin and punishment. It closes with a focus on the bond between creator and creation, on placing one in that, and on hope rooted in belief that God is in ultimate control.
       
      It is generally accepted that God's responsive speeches in Job do not directly answer Job's complaints; God does not attempt to justify himself or reveal the reason for Job's suffering to him; instead Yahweh's speeches focus on increasing Job's overall understanding of his relationship with God. This exemplifies Biblical theodicy.: 21, 28  There is general agreement among Bible scholars that the Bible "does not admit of a singular perspective on evil.... Instead we encounter a variety of perspectives... Consequently  moral and spiritual remedies, not rational or logical .... It is simply that the Bible operates within a cosmic, moral and spiritual landscape rather than within a rationalist, abstract, ontological landscape.": 27  
      This is in evidence in Yahweh's first and second speech in Job. Yahweh's first speech concerns human ignorance and God's authority. Job had seen himself at the center of events, lamenting that God has singled him out to oppress; Yahweh responds that Job is not the center, God is; his kingdom is complex, he governs on a large scale. Since Yahweh is in dominion over all the earth, Job cannot conceivably condemn him, unless Job were to prove that he can do all the things God can.: Chapter 3:Job  Yahweh's second speech is against human self-righteousness. Job has vehemently accused God of thwarting justice as "the omnipotent tyrant, the cosmic thug". Some scholars interpret Yahweh's response as an admission of failure on his part, but he goes on to say he has the power and in his own timing will bring justice in the end.: Chapter 3:Job  
      "Isaiah is generally recognized as one of the most progressive books of the prophetic corpus.": 208  Hebrew Bible scholar Marvin A. Sweeney says "...a unified reading of  places the question of theodicy at the forefront...  three major dimensions of the question...: Yahweh's identification with the conqueror, Yahweh's decree of judgment against Israel without possibility of repentance, and the failure of Yahweh's program to be realized by the end of the book.": 209  Christian theologians read some passages in Isaiah differently. "In either case, suffering is understood as having transcendent meaning... human agency can give particular instances of suffering a mystical significance that transforms it into something productive." 
      Theodicy in the book of Ezekiel (and also in Jeremiah 31:29-30) confronts the concept of personal moral responsibility. "The main point is stated at the beginning and at the end—"the soul that sins shall die"—and is explicated by a case history of a family traced through three generations." It is not about heredity but is about understanding divine justice in a world under divine governance.: 82  
      "Theodicy in the Minor Prophets differs little from that in Isaiah, Jeremiah and Ezekiel." For example, the first chapter of Habakuk raises questions about Yahweh's justice, laments God's inaction in punishing injustice, and looks for God's action in response—then objects to what God chooses.: Chapter 1  Instead of engaging in debate, God gives Habakuk a vision of the future which includes five oracles that form a theodicy: (1) God has a plan and has appointed a time for judgment. It may be slow in coming as humans see things, but it will come. (2) The woe oracles confront the prevalence of evil in the world and the justice those acts have earned (3) The vision of the manifestation of God is a recognition of God's power to address these issues (4) God as a warrior will fight for his people (5) The song of triumph says the faithful will prevail by holding to trust and hope.: Intro, Chapter 3  Joel and the other minor prophets demonstrate that theodicy and eschatology are connected in the Bible.: 201  
      Psalm 73 presents the internal struggle created by personal suffering and the prosperity of the wicked. The writer gains perspective when he "enters the sanctuary of God (16-17)" seeing that God's justice will eventually prevail. He reaffirms his relationship with Yahweh, is ashamed of his resentment, and chooses trust.: Chapter 3:Psalm 73  Psalm 77 contains real outspokenness to God as well as determination to hold onto faith and trust.: Chapter 3:Psalm 77  
      For the Christian, the Scriptures assure him or her that the allowance of evil is for a good purpose based on relationship with God. "Some of the good ... cannot be achieved without delay and suffering, and the evil of this world is indeed necessary for the achievement of those good purposes. ... God has the right to allow such evils to occur, so long as the 'goods' are facilitated and the 'evils' are limited and compensated in the way that various other Christian doctrines (of human free will, life after death, the end of the world, etc.) affirm.... the 'good states' which (according to Christian doctrine) God seeks are so good that they outweigh the accompanying evils.": Intro., 51  
      This is somewhat illustrated in the Book of Exodus when Pharaoh is described as being raised up that God's name be known in all the earth Exodus 9:16. This is mirrored in Romans' ninth chapter, where Paul appeals to God's sovereignty as sufficient explanation, with God's goodness experientially known to the Christian.  
      Augustinian theodicy 
      
      
       Main article: Augustinian theodicy
       
      The Protestant and Reformed reading of Augustinian theodicy, as promoted primarily by John Hick, is based on the writings of Augustine of Hippo, a Christian philosopher and theologian who lived from AD 354 to 430. The Catholic (pre-reformation) formulation of the same issue is substantially different and is outlined below. In Hick's approach, this form of theodicy argues that evil does not exist except as a privation—or corruption—of goodness, and therefore God did not create evil. Augustinian scholars have argued that God created the world perfectly, with no evil or human suffering. Evil entered the world through the disobedience of Adam and Eve and the theodicy casts the existence of evil as a just punishment for this original sin. The theodicy argues that humans have an evil nature in as much as it is deprived of its original goodness, form, order, and measure due to the inherited original sin of Adam and Eve, but still ultimately remains good due to existence coming from God, for if a nature was completely evil (deprived of the good), it would cease to exist. It maintains that God remains blameless and good. 
      In the Roman Catholic reading of Augustine, the issue of just war as developed in his book The City of God substantially established his position concerning the positive justification of killing, suffering and pain as inflicted upon an enemy when encountered in war for a just cause. Augustine asserted that peacefulness in the face of a grave wrong that could only be stopped by violence would be a sin. Defense of one's self or others could be a necessity, especially when authorized by a legitimate authority. While not elaborating the conditions necessary for war to be just, Augustine nonetheless originated the very phrase, itself, in his work The City of God. In essence, the pursuit of peace must include the option of fighting with all of its eventualities in order to preserve peace in the long-term. Such a war could not be pre-emptive, but defensive, to restore peace. Thomas Aquinas, centuries later, used the authority of Augustine's arguments in an attempt to define the conditions under which a war could be just.  
      Irenaean theodicy 
      
      
       Main article: Irenaean theodicy
       
      Irenaeus (died c. 202), born in the early second century, expressed ideas which explained the existence of evil as necessary for human development. Irenaeus argued that human creation comprised two parts: humans were made first in the image, then in the likeness, of God. The image of God consists of having the potential to achieve moral perfection, whereas the likeness of God is the achievement of that perfection. To achieve moral perfection, Irenaeus suggested that humans must have free will. To achieve such free will, humans must experience suffering and God must be at an epistemic distance (a distance of knowledge) from humanity. Therefore, evil exists to allow humans to develop as moral agents. In the twentieth century, John Hick collated the ideas of Irenaeus into a distinct theodicy. He argued that the world exists as a "vale of soul-making" (a phrase that he drew from John Keats), and that suffering and evil must therefore occur. He argued that human goodness develops through the experience of evil and suffering.  
      Origenian theodicy 
      In direct response to John Hick's description of theodicy, Mark Scott has indicated that neither Augustine of Hippo nor Irenaeus of Lyons provide an appropriate context for the discussion of Hick's theistic version of theodicy. As a theologian among the Church Fathers who articulated a theory of apokatastasis (or universal reconciliation), Origen of Alexandria provides a more direct theological comparison for the discussion of Hick's presentation of universal salvation and theodicy. Neither Irenaeus nor Augustine endorsed a theology of universal salvation in any form comparable to that of John Hick.  
      Relatively minor theodicies 
      Michael Martin summarizes what he calls “relatively minor” theodicies.  
      
       
        
         The Finite God Theodicy maintains that God is all-good (omnibenevolent) but not all-powerful (omnipotent). 
         The Best of all Possible Worlds Theodicy, a traditional theology, argues that the creation is the best of all possible worlds. 
         The Original Sin Theodicy holds that evil came into the world because of humanity's original sin. 
         The Ultimate Harmony Theodicy justifies evil as leading to “good long-range consequences”. 
         The Degree of Desirability of a Conscious State Theodicy has been reckoned a “complex theodicy.” It argues that a person’s state is deemed evil only when it is undesirable to the person. However, because God is unable to make a person’s state desirable to the person, the theodic problem does not exist. 
         The Reincarnation Theodicy believes that people suffer evil because of their wrong-doing in a previous life. 
         The Contrast Theodicy holds that evil is needed to enable people to appreciate or understand good. 
         The Warning Theodicy rationalizes evil as God’s warning to people to mend their ways.
        
       
       
      Islamic world 
      Mu'tazila theologians approached the problem of theodicy within a framework of moral realism, according to which the moral value of acts is accessible to unaided reason, so that humans can make moral judgments about divine acts. They argued that the divine act of creation is good despite existence of suffering, because it allows humans a compensation of greater reward in the afterlife. They posited that individuals have free will to commit evil and absolved God of responsibility for such acts. God's justice thus consists of punishing wrongdoers. Following the demise of Mu'tazila as a school, their theodicy was adopted in the Zaydi and Twelver branches of Shia Islam. 
      Most Sunni theologians analyzed theodicy from an anti-realist metaethical standpoint. Ash'ari theologians argued that ordinary moral judgments stem from emotion and social convention, which are inadequate to either condemn or justify divine actions. Ash'arites hold that God creates everything, including human actions, but distinguish creation (khalq) from acquisition (kasb) of actions. They allow individuals the latter ability, though they do not posit existence of free will in a fuller sense of the term. In the words of Al-Shahrastani (1086–1153):  
      
      
       God creates, in man, the power, ability, choice, and will to perform an act, and man, endowed with this derived power, chooses freely one of the alternatives and intends or wills to do the action, and, corresponding to this intention, God creates and completes the action.
       
      Ash'ari theology insists on ultimate divine transcendence and teaches that human knowledge regarding it is limited to what has been revealed through the prophets, so that on the question of God's creation of evil, revelation has to accepted bila kayfa (without  how). 
      Maturidi, in contrast to Ash'arites, holds that human mind is able to grasp good and evil independent from revelation. Contrary to the Mu'tazilites, he disagrees that God's wisdom entails creating only good. Since rights couldn't exist before God created anything, God is not bound to responsibilities for creations. Instead, God's wisdom means that God puts everything in its proper place. He cites Surah Al Imran verse 178, to point out that God doesn't regard believers and unbelievers as equal; God would increase the sin of the sinners (and guide the believers). He criticizes believing that God only creates good as remnants of Persian dualistic religions, improper for God. 
      Ibn Sina, the most influential Muslim philosopher, analyzed theodicy from a purely ontological, neoplatonic standpoint, aiming to prove that God, as the absolutely good First Cause, created a good world. Ibn Sina argued that evil refers either to a cause of an entity (such as burning in a fire), being a quality of another entity, or to its imperfection (such as blindness), in which case it does not exist as an entity. According to Ibn Sina, such qualities are necessary attributes of the best possible order of things, so that the good they serve is greater than the harm they cause. 
      Philosophical Sufi theologians such as Ibn Arabi were influenced by the neoplatonic theodicy of Ibn Sina. Al-Ghazali anticipated the optimistic theodicy of Leibniz in his dictum "There is nothing in possibility more wonderful than what is." Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, who represented the mainstream Sunni view, challenged Ibn Sina's analysis and argued that it merely sidesteps the real problem of evil, which is rooted in the human experience of suffering in a world that contains more pain than pleasure. 
      The Hanbali scholar Ibn Taymiyya, whose writings became influential in Wahhabism, argued that, while God creates human acts, humans are responsible for their deeds as the agents of their acts. He held that divine creation is good from a causal standpoint, as God creates all things for wise purposes. Thus apparent evil is in actuality good in view of its purpose, and pure evil does not exist. This analysis was developed further with practical illustrations by Ibn al-Qayyim.  
      Alternatives 
      Jewish anti-theodicy 
      
      
       Main article: Holocaust theology
       
      In 1998, Jewish theologian Zachary Braiterman coined the term anti-theodicy in his book (God) After Auschwitz to describe Jews, both in a biblical and post-Holocaust context, whose response to the problem of evil is protest and refusal to investigate the relationship between God and suffering. An anti-theodicy acts in opposition to a theodicy and places full blame for all experience of evil onto God, but must rise from an individual's belief in and love of God. Anti-theodicy has been likened to Job's protests in the Book of Job. Braiterman wrote that an anti-theodicy rejects the idea that there is a meaningful relationship between God and evil or that God could be justified for the experience of evil. 
      The Holocaust prompted a reconsideration of theodicy in some Jewish circles. French Jewish philosopher Emmanuel Levinas, who had himself been a prisoner of war in Nazi Germany, declared theodicy to be "blasphemous", arguing that it is the "source of all immorality", and demanded that the project of theodicy be ended. Levinas asked whether the idea of absolutism survived after the Holocaust, which he proposed it did. He argued that humans are not called to justify God in the face of evil, but to attempt to live godly lives; rather than considering whether God was present during the Holocaust, the duty of humans is to build a world where goodness will prevail. 
      Professor of theology David R. Blumenthal, in his book Facing the Abusing God, supports the "theology of protest", which he saw as presented in the play, The Trial of God. He supports the view that survivors of the Holocaust cannot forgive God and so must protest about it. Blumenthal believes that a similar theology is presented in the book of Job, in which Job does not question God's existence or power, but his morality and justice. Other prominent voices in the Jewish tradition commenting on the justification of God in the presence of the Holocaust have been the Nobel prize winning author Elie Wiesel and Richard L. Rubinstein in his book The Cunning of History. 
      Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the seventh Rebbe of Chabad Lubavitch, sought to elucidate how faith (or trust, emunah) in God defines the full, transcendental preconditions of anti-theodicy. Endorsing the attitude of "holy protest" found in the stories of Job and Jeremiah, but also in those of Abraham (Genesis 18) and Moses (Exodus 33), Rabbi Schneerson argued that a phenomenology of protest, when carried through to its logical limits, reveals a profound conviction in cosmic justice such, as we first find in Abraham's question: "Will the Judge of the whole earth not do justice?" (Genesis 18:25). Recalling Kant's 1791 essay on the failure of all theoretical attempts in theodicy, a viable practical theodicy is identified with messianism. This faithful anti-theodicy is worked out in a long letter of 26 April 1965 to Elie Wiesel.  
      Christian alternatives to theodicy 
      A number of Christian writers oppose theodicies. Todd Billings deems constructing theodicies to be a “destructive practice”. In the same vein, Nick Trakakis observes that “theodical discourse can only add to the world’s evils, not remove or illuminate them.” As an alternative to theodicy, some theologians have advocated “reflection on tragedy” as a more befitting reply to evil. For example, Wendy Farley believes that “a desire for justice” and “anger and pity at suffering” should replace “theodicy’s cool justifications of evil”. Sarah K. Pinnock opposes abstract theodicies that would legitimize evil and suffering. However, she endorses theodicy discussions in which people ponder God, evil, and suffering from a practical faith perspective. 
      Karl Barth viewed the evil of human suffering as ultimately in the “control of divine providence”. Given this view, Barth deemed it impossible for humans to devise a theodicy that establishes "the idea of the goodness of God". For Barth, only the crucifixion could establish the goodness of God. In the crucifixion, God bears and suffers what humanity suffers. This suffering by God Himself makes human theodicies anticlimactic. Barth found a “twofold justification” in the crucifixion: the justification of sinful humanity and “the justification in which God justifies Himself”. 
      Christian Science offers a solution to the problem by denying that evil ultimately exists. Mary Baker Eddy and Mark Twain had some contrasting views on theodicy and suffering, which are well-described by Stephen Gottschalk. 
      Redemptive suffering based in Pope John Paul II's theology of the body embraces suffering as having value in and of itself. Eleonore Stump in "Wandering in Darkness" uses psychology, narrative and exegesis to demonstrate that redemptive suffering, as found in Thomistic theodicy, can constitute a consistent and cogent defence for the problem of suffering.  
      Free-will defense 
      
      
       See also: Theodicy and the Bible §&nbsp;Bible and free-will theodicy
       
      As an alternative to a theodicy, a defense may be offered as a response to the problem of evil. A defense attempts to show that God's existence is not made logically impossible by the existence of evil; it does not need to be true or plausible, merely logically possible. American philosopher Alvin Plantinga offers a free-will defense which argues that human free will sufficiently explains the existence of evil while maintaining that God's existence remains logically possible. He argues that, if God's existence and the existence of evil are to be logically inconsistent, a premise must be provided which, if true, would make them inconsistent; as none has been provided, the existence of God and evil must be consistent. Free will furthers this argument by providing a premise which, in conjunction with the existence of evil, entails that God's existence remains consistent. Opponents have argued this defense is discredited by the existence of non-human related evil such as droughts, tsunamis and malaria.  
      Cosmodicy and anthropodicy 
      A cosmodicy attempts to justify the fundamental goodness of the universe in the face of evil, and an anthropodicy attempts to justify the fundamental goodness of human nature in the face of the evils produced by humans. 
      Considering the relationship between theodicy and cosmodicy, Johannes van der Ven argued that the choice between theodicy and cosmodicy is a false dilemma. Philip E. Devenish proposed what he described as "a nuanced view in which theodicy and cosmodicy are rendered complementary, rather than alternative concepts". Theologian J. Matthew Ashley described the relationship between theodicy, cosmodicy and anthropodicy:  
      
      
       In classical terms, this is to broach the problem of theodicy: how to think about God in the face of the presence of suffering in God's creation. After God's dethronement as the subject of history, the question rebounds to the new subject of history: the human being. As a consequence, theodicy becomes anthropodicy – justifications of our faith in humanity as the subject of history, in the face of the suffering that is so inextricably woven into the history that humanity makes.
       
      Essential kenosis 
      Essential kenosis is a form of process theology (related to "open theism") that allows one to affirm that God is almighty, while simultaneously affirming that God cannot prevent genuine evil. Because out of love God necessarily gives freedom, agency, self-organization, natural processes, and law-like regularities to creation, God cannot override, withdraw, or fail to provide such capacities. Consequently, God is not culpable for failing to prevent genuine evil. The work of Thomas Jay Oord explains this view most fully. 
      Gijsbert van den Brink effectively refutes any view which says God has restricted His power because of his love saying it creates a "metaphysical dualism", and it would not alleviate God's responsibility for evil because God could have prevented evil by not restricting himself. Van den Brink goes on to elaborate an explanation of power and love within the Trinitarian view which equates power and love, and what he calls "the power of love" as representative of God's involvement in the struggle against evil.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Religion portal
       
       
      
       Augustinian theodicy 
       Dystheism 
       Irenaean theodicy 
       Misotheism 
       Problem of hell 
       Global justice 
       Theodicy and the Bible 
       Theodicy in Hinduism
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Pecorino, Philip A. (2000). "Chapter 3: 'Philosophy of Religion', Section 11: Problem of Evil". An Introduction to Philosophy: An Online Textbook. Queensborough Community College.  
         ^ A defence is “an effort to show that there is no formal contradiction between the existence of God... and the existence of evil.” Michael Rea and Louis B. Pojman, eds., Philosophy of Religion: An Anthology (Cengage Learning, 2015, 7th ed.), 229.  
         ^ Richard Swedberg, Ola Agevall, The Max Weber Dictionary: Key Words and Central Concepts (Stanford University Press, 2005), 274.  
         ^ Peter L. Berger, The Sacred Canopy: Elements of a Sociological Theory of Religion (Doubleday, 1st ed, 1967), 55.  
         ^ Plantinga, Alvin (1974). God, Freedom, and Evil, William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, p. 10.  
         ^ http://www.thefreedictionary.com/theodicy and 
           Anthony J. Tambasco, ed. (2002). The Bible on Suffering. New York: Paulist Press. p.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;0809140489.  
         ^ "δίκη". A Greek–English Lexicon.  
         ^ Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "theodicy", accessed October 20, 2013.  
         ^ a b 
           Trakakis, Nick (March 31, 2005). "The Evidential Problem of Evil". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved January 16, 2012.  
         ^ Bunnin &amp; Tsui-James 2002, p. 481  
         ^ Geivett 1995, pp. 60–61  
         ^ a b c d e f g Calder, Todd, "The Concept of Evil", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2016 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = &lt;https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2016/entries/concept-evil/&gt;  
         ^ 
           Nieman, Susan (2015-08-25). Evil in Modern Thought: An Alternative History of Philosophy. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-16850-0.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Wright, N. T. (2006). Evil and the Justice of God. Downer's Grove, Illinois: Intervarsity Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8308-3415-0.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i 
           Swinburne, Richard (1998). Providence and the Problem of Evil. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-19-823799-5.  
         ^ O'Brien, D., 1996, “Plotinus on matter and evil,” in The Cambridge Companion to Plotinus, L.P. Gerson (ed.), Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 171–195.  
         ^ Plotinus, The Enneads, S. Mackenna (trans.), London: Faber, 4th edition, revised by B.S. Page, 1969.  
         ^ 
           Kant, Immanuel (2003). Kant: Religion Within the Boundaries of Mere Reason: And Other Writings. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-521-59049-3.  
         ^ 
           Locke, John (1836). An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Glasgow: B.Griffin and Co.  
         ^ 
           Hobbes, Thomas (2018). Leviathan. Minneapolis, Minnesota: Lerner Publishing Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-151-248609-4.  
         ^ 
           Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm (2009). Theodicy. Cosimo. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-61640-295-2.  
         ^ 
           Thera, Nyanaponika (2008). The Roots of Good and Evil: Buddhist Texts translated from the Pali. ISBN&nbsp;978-955-24-0316-3.  
         ^ 
           Okello, Joseph B. Onyango (2017). Evil and Pain: A Critique of the Materialistic Account of Evil. Eugene, Oregon: Wipf and Stock. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-5326-0134-7.  
         ^ 
           Leaman, Oliver (1995). Evil and Suffering in Jewish Philosophy. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-521-41724-4.  
         ^ Swedberg 2005, pp. 273–74  
         ^ Scott 2009, p. 2  
         ^ Swedberg 2005, p. 275  
         ^ Scott 2009, p. 4  
         ^ Scott 2009, pp. 5–7  
         ^ Woodhead 2001, p. 74  
         ^ Leibniz 1734  
         ^ 
           Lennon, Thomas (7 February 2003). "Pierre Bayle". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved January 22, 2012.  
         ^ Voltaire, Candide and Poème sur le désastre de Lisbonne  
         ^ Mason (1992), p. 10  
         ^ 
           Kempf, Constantine (2012). "Theodicy". The Catholic Encyclopedia. Retrieved September 4, 2012.  
         ^ Cheetham 2003, p. 40  
         ^ Hall 2003, p. 132  
         ^ Smullyan 1977, p. 86  
         ^ Birnbaum, David (1989). God and Evil. Hoboken: Ktav Pub. House. p. 4  
         ^ Assman, Jan (2001). The Search for God in Ancient Egypt trans. David Lorton. Cornell University Press. 169  
         ^ 
           Mitchell, Philip Irving. "Theodicy: An Overview". Dallas Baptist University. Retrieved July 17, 2012.  
         ^ Johnston 2004, pp. 531–47  
         ^ The Old Testament. Modern Library Edition, Introduction, authored by George Steiner.  
         ^ a b c d e f g 
           Ko, Grace (2014). Theodicy in Habakkuk. United Kingdom: Paternoster.  
         ^ Pathways in Theodicy: An Introduction to the Problem of Evil By Mark S. M. Scott  
         ^ Pathways in Theodicy: An Introduction to the Problem of Evil, By Mark S. M. Scott  
         ^ 
           Scott, Mark S. M. (2015). Pathways in Theodicy: An Introduction to the Problem of Evil. Fortress Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4514-6470-2.  
         ^ a b 
           Linafelt, Tod, ed. (2000). Strange Fire: Reading the Bible After the Holocaust. New York University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-8147-5165-2.  
         ^ 
           Pinnock, Sarah K. (2002). Beyond Theodicy: Jewish and Christian Continental Thinkers Respond to the Holocaust. New York: State University of New York Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-7914-5523-8.  
         ^ 
           Blenkinsopp, Joseph (1990). Ezekiel. Louisville: John Knox Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-8042-3118-4.  
         ^ a b 
           Redditt, Paul L (2003). Thematic Threads in the Book of the Twelve. New York: Walter De Gruyter. ISBN&nbsp;3-11-017594-0.  
         ^ John M. Frame and Joseph E. Torres, Apologetics: A Justification of Christian Belief (Phillipsburg, NJ: P&amp;R Publishing, 2015), 184.  
         ^ Apologetics, Frame 178–79.  
         ^ 
           Mendelson, Michael (12 November 2010) . "Saint Augustine". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 9 October 2011.  
         ^ Menn 2002, p. 170  
         ^ Corey 2000, pp. 177–78  
         ^ Green 2011, p. 779  
         ^ Geivett 1995, p. 19  
         ^ A Time For War? Christianity Today (2001-01-09). Retrieved on 2013-04-28.  
         ^ Augustine of Hippo Archived 2012-07-28 at archive.today. Crusades-encyclopedia.com. Retrieved on 2013-04-28.  
         ^ St. Augustine of Hippo Archived 2012-07-28 at archive.today, Crusades-Encyclopedia  
         ^ Saint Augustine and the Theory of Just War Archived 2013-11-03 at the Wayback Machine. Jknirp.com (2007-01-23). Retrieved on 2013-04-28.  
         ^ The Just War. Catholiceducation.org. Retrieved on 2013-04-28.  
         ^ 
           Gonzalez, Justo L. (1984). The Story of Christianity. San Francisco: Harper. ISBN&nbsp;006185588X.  
         ^  Davis 2001, pp. 40-42  
         ^ Stump 1999, pp. 222–27  
         ^ Scott, Mark (2012). Origen and the Problem of Evil, Oxford University Press.  
         ^ Michael Martin, Atheism: A Philosophical Justification (Temple University Press, 1992), 436–54.  
         ^ Ramblings of a Thomist, Blog of March 27, 2008 http://thomisticramblings.blogspot.com/2008/03/minor-theodicies-and.html. Accessed September 25, 2015.  
         ^ Michael Martin, Atheism: A Philosophical Justification (Temple University Press, 1992), 444–45. Martin finds this theodicy in George Schlesinger, Religion and Scientific Method (Springer Science &amp; Business Media, 2012) and judges it unsatisfactory.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i j k 
           Ayman Shihadeh (2005). "Suffering". In Josef W. Meri (ed.). Medieval Islamic Civilization: An Encyclopedia. Routledge. p.&nbsp;772. ISBN&nbsp;9780415966924.  
         ^ a b c 
           Roy Jackson (2014-02-05). What is Islamic Philosophy?. Routledge. pp.&nbsp;32–33. ISBN&nbsp;9781317814047.  
         ^ 
           Tamara Sonn (2009). "Tawḥīd". In John L. Esposito (ed.). The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
         ^ Oliver Leaman The Biographical Encyclopedia of Islamic Philosophy Bloomsbury Publishing 2015 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-1-472-56945-5 page 311  
         ^ Alper, Hülya. "Maturidi'nin Mutezile Eleştirisi: Tanrı En İyiyi Yaratmak Zorunda mıdır?." KADER Kelam Araştırmaları Dergisi 11.1 (2013): 17-36.  
         ^ Alper, Hülya. "Maturidi'nin Mutezile Eleştirisi: Tanrı En İyiyi Yaratmak Zorunda mıdır?." KADER Kelam Araştırmaları Dergisi 11.1 (2013): 17-36.  
         ^ Bürgel, J. Christoph. "Zoroastrianism as Viewed in Medieval Islamic Sources." Muslim Perceptions of Other Religions (1999): 202-212.  
         ^ 
           Michael L. Peterson (2011). "Religious Diversity, Evil, and a Variety of Theodicies". In Chad Meister (ed.). The Oxford Handbook of Religious Diversity. p.&nbsp;162.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Hoover, Jon (2014). "Ḥanbalī Theology". In Sabine Schmidtke (ed.). The Oxford Handbook of Islamic Theology. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;642.  
         ^ Marty &amp; Taliaferro 2010, p. 17  
         ^ Gibbs &amp; Wolfson 2002, p. 38  
         ^ Pinnock 2002, p. 8  
         ^ Patterson &amp; Roth 2005, pp. 189–90  
         ^ Blumenthal 1993, pp. 250–51  
         ^ Rubinstein, Richard L. The Cunning of History.  
         ^ Über das Misslingen aller philosophischen Versuche in der Theodizee http://cas.uchicago.edu/workshops/germanphilosophy/files/2013/02/Kant-On-the-Miscarriage-of-all-Philosophical-Trials-at-Theodicy.pdf  
         ^ http://www.chighel.com/opening-statement-7a/ The original letter in Yiddish is found in R. Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Likutei Siḥot, Vol. 33 (New York: Kehot, 1962–2001), pp. 255–60.  
         ^ Todd Billings, "Theodicy as a 'Lived Question': Moving Beyond a Theoretical Approach to Theodicy", http://www.luthersem.edu/ctrf/JCTR/Vol05/billings.htm Accessed September 25, 2013. About the author: http://www.westernsem.edu/about/faculty-staff/.  
         ^ Nick Trakakis, “Theodicy: The Solution to the Problem of Evil, or Part of the Problem?”, Springerlink.com, accessed December 19, 2009.  
         ^ 
           Franklin, James (2020). "Antitheodicy and the grading of theodicies by moral offensiveness". Sophia. 59: 563–576. doi:10.1007/s11841-020-00765-w. Retrieved 29 June 2021.  
         ^ Donald W. Musser and Joseph L. Price, eds., A New Handbook of Christian Theology (Abingdon Press, 1992), s.v. “Tragedy.”  
         ^ Wendy Farley, Tragic Vision and Divine Compassion: a Contemporary Theodicy (Westminster John Knox Press, 1990) 12, 23.  
         ^ Sarah Katherine Pinnock, Beyond Theodicy (SUNY Press, 2002), 135, 141.  
         ^ Karl Barth, Church Dogmatics (T &amp; T Clark, 1957), IV-1, 246.  
         ^ Barth, Church Dogmatics, III-1, 368.  
         ^ Barth, Church Dogmatics, II-2, 165.  
         ^ Barth, Church Dogmatics, IV-1, 246.  
         ^ Barth, Church Dogmatics, II-2, 223.  
         ^ Barth, Church Dogmatics, IV-1, 564.  
         ^ Ben Dupre, "The Problem of Evil", 50 Philosophy Ideas You Really Need to Know, London, Quercus, 2007, p. 166: "Denying that there is ultimately any such thing as evil, as advocated by Christian Scientists, solves the problem at a stroke, but such a remedy is too hard for most to swallow."  
         ^ Whale, J. S. The Christian answer to the problem of evil. 1948  
         ^ "Rolling Away the Stone: Mary Baker Eddy's Challenge to Materialism" (Indiana University Press, 2006) 83, 123, etc.  
         ^ 
           Reimers, Adrian J. "Human Suffering and Jon Paul II's Theology of the Body".  
         ^ 
           "Catholicprimer.org" (PDF). www.catholicprimer.org.  
         ^ 
           Stump, Eleonore (2010). Wandering in Darkness: Narrative and the Problem of Suffering. N.Y. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-927742-1.  
         ^ McGrath 1995, p. 193  
         ^ Plantinga &amp; Sennett 1998, pp. 22–24  
         ^ 
           Bart D. Ehrman (13 October 2009). God's Problem: How the Bible Fails to Answer Our Most Important Question – Why We Suffer. HarperCollins. p.&nbsp;12. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-174440-2.  
         ^ Carsten Meiner, Kristin Veel, eds., The Cultural Life of Catastrophes and Crises (Walter de Gruyter, 2012), 243.  
         ^ Van der Ven 1989, p. 205  
         ^ Devenish 1992, pp. 5–23  
         ^ Ashley 2010, pp. 870–902  
         ^ 
           Oord, Thomas Jay (2015-12-06). The Uncontrolling Love of God: An Open and Relational Account of Providence. IVP Academic. ISBN&nbsp;9780830840847.  
         ^ 
           Oord, Thomas (2010-04-10). The Nature of Love: A Theology. Chalice Press.  
         ^ 
           van den Brink, Gijsbert (1993). Almighty God: A Study on the Doctrine of Divine Omnipotence. Kampen, the Netherlands: Kok Pharos publishing House. pp.&nbsp;263–73.  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
        Adams, Marilyn McCord (1999). Horrendous Evils and the Goodness of God. Cornell University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-80148-686-9. 
       
        Ashley, J. Matthew (2010). "Reading the universe story theologically: the contribution of a biblical narrative imagination". Theological Studies. 71 (4): 870–902. doi:10.1177/004056391007100405. S2CID&nbsp;55990053. 
       Assman, Jan (2001). The Search for God in Ancient Egypt trans. David Lorton. Cornell University Press 
       Birnbaum, David (1989). God and Evil. Ktav Publishing House 
       
        Blumenthal, David R. (1993). Facing the Abusing God: A Theology of Protest. Westminster John Knox Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-66425-464-3. 
       
        Bunnin, Nicholas; Tsui James, E. P. (2002). The Blackwell Companion to Philosophy. John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;9780631219088. 
       
        Cheetham, David (2003). John Hick: a critical introduction and reflection. Ashgate Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7546-1599-6. 
       
        Davis, Stephen T. (2001). Encountering evil: live options in theodicy. Westminster John Knox Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-664-22251-2. 
       
        Devenish, Philip E. (1992). "Theodicy and Cosmodicy: The Contribution of Neoclassical Theism". Journal of Empirical Theology. 4. 
       
        Ehrman, Bart D. (2008). God's Problem:How the Bible Fails to Answer Our Most Important Question – Why We Suffer. HarperCollins Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-117397-4. 
       
        Geiviett, R. Douglas (1995). Evil &amp; the Evidence For God: The Challenge of John Hick's Theodicy. Temple University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-56639-397-3. 
       Inati, Shams C. (2000). The Problem of Evil: Ibn Sînâ's Theodicy. 
        ISBN&nbsp;1586840061. Global Academic Publishing, Binghamton University, New York. 
       
        Gibbs, Robert; Wolfson, Elliot (2002). Suffering religion. Psychology Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-26612-3. 
       
        Hall, Lindsey (2003). Swinburne's hell and Hick's universalism: are we free to reject God?. Ashgate Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7546-3400-3. 
       
        Johnston, Sarah Iles (2004). Religions of the Ancient World: A Guide. Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-674-01517-3. 
       
        Leibniz, Gottfried (1710). Theodicy. 
       
        Marty, Marty; Taliaferro, Charles (2010). Dictionary of Philosophy of Religion. Continuum International Publishing Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4411-1197-5. 
       
        McGrath, Alister (1995). The Blackwell encyclopedia of modern Christian thought. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-631-19896-3. 
       Neiman, Susan. Evil in Modern Thought: An Alternative History of Philosophy, 2002, Princeton: Princeton University Press. Revised edition, 2015. 
       Oord, Thomas Jay (2015), The Uncontrolling Love of God. Intervarsity Academic. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0830840847 
       
        Patterson, David; Roth, John (2005). Fire in the ashes: God, evil, and the Holocaust. University of Washington Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-295-98547-3. 
       
        Pinnock, Sarah Katherine (2002). Beyond theodicy: Jewish and Christian continental thinkers respond to the Holocaust. SUNY Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7914-5523-4. 
       
        Plantinga, Alvin; Sennett, James (1998). The analytic theist: an Alvin Plantinga reader. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8028-4229-9. 
       
        Scott, Mark S. M. (2009). "Theorising Theodicy in the Study of Religion" (PDF). University of Chicago Divinity School. 
       
        Sharma, Arvind (2006). A primal perspective on the philosophy of religion. Springer. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4020-5013-8. 
       
        Smullyan, Raymond (1977). The Tao is Silent. Harper. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-067469-4. 
       
        Stump, Eleonore (1999). Philosophy of religion: the big questions. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-631-20604-0. 
       
        Svendsen, Lars Fr. H.; Pierce, Kerri A. (2010). A philosophy of evil. Dalkey Archive Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-56478-571-8. 
       
        Swedberg, Richard (2005). The Max Weber Dictionary: Key Words and Central Concepts. Stanford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-80475-095-0. 
       
        Van der Ven, Johannes A. (1989). "Theodicy or cosmodicy: a false dilemma?". Journal of Empirical Theology. 2 (1). 
       
        Watson, Simon R. (2019). "God in Creation: A Consideration of Natural Selection as the Sacrificial Means of a Free Creation". Studies in Religion/Sciences Religieuses. 48 (2): 216–236. doi:10.1177/0008429819830356. S2CID&nbsp;202271434. 
       
        Woo, B. Hoon (2014). "Is God the Author of Sin? – Jonathan Edwards's Theodicy". Puritan Reformed Journal. 6 (1): 98–123. 
       
        Woodhead, Linda (2001). Peter Berger and the Study of Religion. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-41521-532-9.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Theodicy
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Theodicy.
         
       
       
      
       Brown, Paterson. "Religious Morality", Mind, 1963. 
       Brown, Paterson. "Religious Morality: a Reply to Flew and Campbell", Mind, 1964. 
       Brown, Paterson. "God and the Good", Religious Studies, 1967. 
       
        "Theodicy", Catholic Encyclopedia, New advent. 
       The Polkinghorne Reader: Science, Faith, and the Search for Meaning (edited by Thomas Jay Oord; SPCK and Templeton Foundation Press, 2010) 
        ISBN&nbsp;1-59947-315-1 and 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-281-06053-5. 
       Why Does God Allow It? Article discussing men's responsibility on the one hand and his powerlessness regarding natural disasters on the other hand.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
           
         
         
          
           
            Mathematics and
            philosophy
           
          
            
            
             Alternating series test 
             Best of all possible worlds 
             Calculus controversy 
             Calculus ratiocinator 
             Characteristica universalis 
             Difference 
             Identity of indiscernibles 
             Individuation 
             Law of continuity 
             Leibniz wheel 
             Leibniz's gap 
             Mathesis universalis 
             Pre-established harmony 
             Plenitude 
             Sufficient reason 
             Salva veritate 
             Theodicy 
             Transcendental law of homogeneity 
             Rationalism 
             Universal science 
             Vis viva 
             Well-founded phenomenon
             
           
         
         
          Works
          
            
            
             De Arte Combinatoria (1666) 
             Discourse on Metaphysics (1686) 
             New Essays on Human Understanding (1704) 
             Théodicée (1710) 
             Monadology (1714) 
             Leibniz–Clarke correspondence (1715–1716)
             
           
         
         
          
           
             Category
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Hamartiology
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Adam 
             Good and evil 
             The Fall 
             Original sin 
             Christian views on sin 
             Imputation of sin 
             Sin 
             Logical order of God's decrees 
             Theodicy 
             Total depravity
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             See also Apologetics 
             Soteriology 
             Demonology
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy of religion
           
         
         
          Concepts in religion
          
            
            
             Afterlife 
             Euthyphro dilemma 
             Faith 
              
               or religious belief
               
             Intelligent design 
             Miracle 
             Problem of evil 
             Soul 
             Spirit 
             Theodicy 
             Theological veto
             
           
         
         
          Conceptions of God
          
           
           
            
             
              
                
                
                 Aristotelian view 
                 Brahman 
                 Demiurge 
                 Divine simplicity 
                 Egoism 
                 Holy Spirit 
                 Misotheism 
                 Pandeism 
                 Personal god 
                 Process theology 
                 Supreme Being 
                 Unmoved mover
                 
               
             
             
              God in
              
                
                
                 Abrahamic religions 
                 Buddhism 
                 Christianity 
                 Hinduism 
                 Islam 
                 Jainism 
                 Judaism 
                 Mormonism 
                 Sikhism 
                 Baháʼí Faith 
                 Wicca
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Existence of God
          
           
           
            
             
              For
              
                
                
                 Beauty 
                 Christological 
                 Consciousness 
                 Cosmological 
                  
                   Kalam 
                   Contingency
                   
                 Degree 
                 Desire 
                 Experience 
                 Fine-tuning of the universe 
                 Love 
                 Miracles 
                 Morality 
                 Necessary existent 
                 Ontological 
                 Pascal's wager 
                 Proper basis 
                 Reason 
                 Teleological 
                  
                   Natural law 
                   Watchmaker analogy
                   
                 Transcendental
                 
               
             
             
              Against
              
                
                
                 747 gambit 
                 Atheist's Wager 
                 Evil 
                 Free will 
                 Hell 
                 Inconsistent revelations 
                 Nonbelief 
                 Noncognitivism 
                 Occam's razor 
                 Omnipotence 
                 Poor design 
                 Russell's teapot
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Theology
          
            
            
             Acosmism 
             Agnosticism 
             Animism 
             Antireligion 
             Atheism 
             Creationism 
             Dharmism 
             Deism 
             Demonology 
             Divine command theory 
             Dualism 
             Esotericism 
             Exclusivism 
             Existentialism 
              
               Christian 
               Agnostic 
               Atheistic
               
             Feminist theology 
              
               Thealogy 
               Womanist theology
               
             Fideism 
             Fundamentalism 
             Gnosticism 
             Henotheism 
             Humanism 
              
               Religious 
               Secular 
               Christian
               
             Inclusivism 
             Theories about religions 
             Monism 
             Monotheism 
             Mysticism 
             Naturalism 
              
               Metaphysical 
               Religious 
               Humanistic
               
             New Age 
             Nondualism 
             Nontheism 
             Pandeism 
             Panentheism 
             Pantheism 
             Perennialism 
             Polytheism 
             Possibilianism 
             Process theology 
             Religious skepticism 
             Spiritualism 
             Shamanism 
             Taoic 
             Theism 
             Transcendentalism 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          Religious language
          
            
            
             Eschatological verification 
             Language game 
             Logical positivism 
             Apophatic theology 
             Verificationism
             
           
         
         
          Problem of evil
          
            
            
             Augustinian theodicy 
             Best of all possible worlds 
             Euthyphro dilemma 
             Inconsistent triad 
             Irenaean theodicy 
             Natural evil 
             Theodicy
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Philosophersof religion
           (by date active)
          
           
           
            
             
              Ancient andmedieval
              
                
                
                 Anselm of Canterbury 
                 Augustine of Hippo 
                 Avicenna 
                 Averroes 
                 Boethius 
                 Erasmus 
                 Gaunilo of Marmoutiers 
                 Pico della Mirandola 
                 Heraclitus 
                 King James VI and I 
                 Marcion of Sinope 
                 Thomas Aquinas 
                 Maimonides
                 
               
             
             
              Early modern
              
                
                
                 Augustin Calmet 
                 René Descartes 
                 Blaise Pascal 
                 Baruch Spinoza 
                 Nicolas Malebranche 
                 Gottfried W Leibniz 
                 William Wollaston 
                 Thomas Chubb 
                 David Hume 
                 Baron d'Holbach 
                 Immanuel Kant 
                 Johann G Herder
                 
               
             
             
              18001850
              
                
                
                 Friedrich Schleiermacher 
                 Karl C F Krause 
                 Georg W F Hegel
                 
                
                 William Whewell 
                 Ludwig Feuerbach 
                 Søren Kierkegaard 
                 Karl Marx 
                 Albrecht Ritschl 
                 Afrikan Spir
                 
               
             
             
              18801900
              
                
                
                 Ernst Haeckel 
                 W K Clifford 
                 Friedrich Nietzsche 
                 Harald Høffding 
                 William James
                 
                
                 Vladimir Solovyov 
                 Ernst Troeltsch 
                 Rudolf Otto 
                 Lev Shestov 
                 Sergei Bulgakov 
                 Pavel Florensky 
                 Ernst Cassirer 
                 Joseph Maréchal
                 
               
             
             
              1920postwar
              
                
                
                 George Santayana 
                 Bertrand Russell 
                 Martin Buber 
                 René Guénon 
                 Paul Tillich 
                 Karl Barth 
                 Emil Brunner 
                 Rudolf Bultmann 
                 Gabriel Marcel 
                 Reinhold Niebuhr
                 
                
                 Charles Hartshorne 
                 Mircea Eliade 
                 Frithjof Schuon 
                 J L Mackie 
                 Walter Kaufmann 
                 Martin Lings 
                 Peter Geach 
                 George I Mavrodes 
                 William Alston 
                 Antony Flew
                 
               
             
             
              197019902010
              
                
                
                 William L Rowe 
                 Dewi Z Phillips 
                 Alvin Plantinga 
                 Anthony Kenny 
                 Nicholas Wolterstorff 
                 Richard Swinburne 
                 Robert Merrihew Adams 
                 Ravi Zacharias 
                 Peter van Inwagen 
                 Daniel Dennett 
                 Loyal Rue 
                 Jean-Luc Marion 
                 William Lane Craig 
                 Ali Akbar Rashad
                 
                
                 Alexander Pruss
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Criticism of religion 
             Desacralization of knowledge 
             Ethics in religion 
             Exegesis 
             History of religion 
             Religion 
             Religious language 
             Religious philosophy 
             Relationship between religion and science 
             Faith and rationality 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portal 
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Theodicy&amp;oldid=1069572728"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Theodicy
       Christian apologetics
       God in Christianity
       Gottfried Leibniz
       Philosophy of religion
       1710s neologisms
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template archiveis links
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2016
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2016
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Magyar
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 February 2022, at 00:26&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
