
 
  
   
  Alois Senefelder - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Alois Senefelder 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       German actor, playwright and inventor
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Alois Senefelder
          
        
        
         
          
           Lithograph of Senefelder, from Specimens of Polyautography.
          
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Aloys Johann Nepomuk Franz Senefelder
          6 November 1771
          
           Prague, Kingdom of Bohemia
          
        
        
         Died
         26 February 1834 (aged 62)
          
           Munich, Kingdom of Bavaria
          
        
        
         Nationality
         German
        
        
         Occupation
         Engineer
        
        
         Parent(s)
         Peter Senefelder (father)
        
        
         
          Engineering career
        
        
         Projects
         lithography
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Johann Alois Senefelder (6 November 1771&nbsp;– 26 February 1834) was a German actor and playwright who invented the printing technique of lithography in the 1790s.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Actor, playwright 
        2 Discovery, development of lithography 
        3 Awards, legacy 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      Actor, playwright 
      Born Aloys Johann Nepomuk Franz Senefelder in Prague, then capital of the Kingdom of Bohemia, where his actor father was appearing on stage. He was educated in Munich and won a scholarship to study law at Ingolstadt. The death of his father in 1791 forced him to leave his studies to support his mother and eight siblings, and he became an actor and wrote a successful play Connoisseur of Girls.  
      Discovery, development of lithography 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Monument to Alois Senefelder in Solnhofen
        
       
       
      Problems with the printing of his play Mathilde von Altenstein caused him to fall into debt, and unable to afford to publish a new play he had written, Senefelder experimented with a novel etching technique using a greasy, acid resistant ink as a resist on a smooth fine-grained stone of Solnhofen limestone. He then discovered that this could be extended to allow printing from the flat surface of the stone alone, the first planographic process in printing. 
      He joined with the André family of music publishers and gradually brought his technique into a workable form, perfecting both the chemical processes and the special form of printing press required for using the stones. He called it "stone printing" or "chemical printing", but the French name "lithography" became more widely adopted. And with the composer Franz Gleißner he started a publishing firm in 1796 using lithography. 
      The value of the new cheap and exact reproduction process was recognized early by land surveying offices across Europe. Senefelder was appointed 1809 to be the Inspector of a new Institution set up for this purpose in Bavaria called the "Lithographic Institute" (Lithographische Anstalt) in Munich. Similar Institutions were subsequently set up under his supervision in Berlin, Paris, London and Vienna. 
      He secured patent rights across Europe and publicized his findings in 1818 in Vollstandiges Lehrbuch der Steindruckerei which was translated in 1819 into French and English. A Complete Course of Lithography combined Senefelder's history of his own invention with a practical guide to lithography, and remained in print as recently as 1977 (Da Capo Press). 
      Senefelder was also able to exploit the potential of lithography as a medium for art. Unlike previous printmaking techniques, such as engraving, that required advanced craft skills, lithography facilitated greater accuracy and textural variety, because the artist could now draw directly onto the plate with familiar pens. As early as 1803 André published in London a portfolio of artists lithographs, entitled Specimens of Polyautography. 
      In 1837, lithography had been further developed to allow full colour printing from multiple plates, and chromolithography was the most important technique in colour printing until the introduction of process colour.  
      Awards, legacy 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Marble statue (Rudolf Pohle, 1892) of Alois Senefelder located at Senefelderplatz, Berlin. The statue honors Senefelder's invention of lithography. Senefelder's name is written in mirror-reversed lettering, which is used in lithography. One of the two children (putti) is looking at the lettering using a hand mirror, which shows the lettering unreversed.
        
       
       
      Senefelder was decorated by King Maximilian Joseph of Bavaria and a statue of him stands in the town of Solnhofen, where lithographic stone is still quarried. A statue of Alois Senefelder by sculptor Rudolf Pohle was erected in 1892 in what was then known as Thusneldaplatz in Berlin. The name of the square was changed to Senefelderplatz in 1894. An U-Bahn station named Senefelderplatz was opened in 1913. 
      Alois Senefelder's contribution ranks alongside William Ged's invention of stereotyping, Friedrich Koenig's steam press and Ottmar Mergenthaler's linotype machine in its innovative effect. It made printing more affordable and available to more people, and was important in art and newspaper printing. Senefelder lived to see his process become widely adopted both for art printmaking and as the dominant method of pictorial reproduction in the printing industry. He died in Munich, where he is buried in the Alter Südfriedhof.  
      See also 
      
       Johann André 
       List of German inventors and discoverers
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Meggs, Philip B. A History of Graphic Design. John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. 1998. p 146 ISBN&nbsp;0-471-29198-6  
         ^ p. 432 Duckles (1980) Vincent. London "Gleissner, Franz" in The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians Macmillan  
         ^ 
            (PDF). 27 April 2014 https://web.archive.org/web/20140427140758/http://vermessung.bayern.de/file/pdf/4847/download_faltblatt_Lithographie.pdf. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 April 2014. Retrieved 19 May 2020. }: Missing or empty |title= (help)  
         ^ Abebooks search results Accessed 28 February 2014  
         ^ Lyons, Martyn. Books: A Living History. Los Angeles: J. Paul Getty Museum, 2011. p. 135  
         ^ 
           Henshaw, Mark (2003). "First Impressions". National Gallery of Australia. Retrieved 24 April 2010.  
        
       
       
      
       Senefelderplatz (Berlin U-Bahn) 
       THE INVENTION OF LITHOGRAPHY by Alois Senefelder, (English translation, 1911) (a searchable facsimile at the University of Georgia Libraries; DjVu &amp; layered PDF format) 
       Alois Senefelder: Vollständiges Lehrbuch der Steindruckerey, (Complete Manual of Lithography), 1818,  
       Nederlands Steendrukmuseum
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article "Senefelder, Alois".
         
       
       
      
       Works by Alois Senefelder at Project Gutenberg 
       Works by or about Alois Senefelder at Internet Archive 
       Alois Senenfelder at Open Library
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Greece 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Art research institutes
          
            
            
             KulturNav (Norway) 
             RKD Artists (Netherlands) 
             Artist Names (Getty)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RISM (France) 
              
               1
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alois_Senefelder&amp;oldid=1068030434"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1771 births
       1834 deaths
       18th-century Bohemian people
       18th-century German scientists
       19th-century German scientists
       18th-century German inventors
       German Bohemian people
       Writers from Prague
       Burials at the Alter Südfriedhof
       German male dramatists and playwrights
       18th-century German dramatists and playwrights
       19th-century German writers
       Scientists from Prague
       19th-century German male writers
       18th-century German male writers
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing title
       CS1 errors: bare URL
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from August 2020
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with Project Gutenberg links
       Articles with Internet Archive links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with KULTURNAV identifiers
       Articles with RKDartists identifiers
       Articles with ULAN identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RISM identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       मराठी
       مصرى
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 26 January 2022, at 08:49&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
