
 
  
   
  Richard March Hoe - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Richard March Hoe 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Richard Hoe)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       19th-century American inventor
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Richard March Hoe
          
        
        
         
          
           Richard March Hoe
          
        
        
         Born
         (1812-09-12)September 12, 1812
          
           New York City
          
        
        
         Died
         June 7, 1886(1886-06-07) (aged&nbsp;73)
          
           Florence, Italy
          
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Occupation
         Engineer
        
        
         
          Engineering career
        
        
         Significant design
         Rotary printing press
        
        
         Significant advance
         Printing press
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Richard March Hoe (middle name spelled in some 1920s records as "Marsh") (September 12, 1812 – June 7, 1886) was an American inventor from New York City who designed a rotary printing press and related advancements, including the "Hoe web perfecting press" in 1871; it used a continuous roll of paper and revolutionized newspaper publishing.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Inventions 
        3 Brightside estate 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Richard March Hoe was born in New York City, the son of Robert Hoe (1784–1833), an English-born American mechanic from Leicestershire. His brothers were Peter Smith Hoe and Robert Hoe II. 
      His father, with brothers-in-law Peter and Matthew Smith, established a steam-powered manufactory of printing presses in New York City. At the age of fifteen, Richard joined their enterprise. Several years later in 1833, he became a senior member of his father's firm R. Hoe &amp; Company. After his father's death that year, Hoe became head of the company. He was joined later by his younger brother Robert Hoe II (1815-1884). 
      Richard Hoe married and had a family, eventually living in a manor house on 53 acres in the Bronx. Hoe died on June 7, 1886, in Florence, Italy.  
      Inventions 
      Early on, Hoe added the production of steel saws to his business and introduced improvements to their manufacture. In 1837, he visited England and obtained a patent for a better process of grinding saws. In connection with his factory, Hoe established an apprentice's school where free instruction was given. 
      He is most well known for his invention in 1843 of a rotary printing press: type was placed on a revolving cylinder, a design that could print much faster than the old flatbed printing press. It received U.S. Patent 5,199 in 1847, and was placed in commercial use the same year. Arunah Shepherdson Abell, publisher of The Sun in Baltimore, was among the first to buy it and put it into use. In its early days, it was variously called the "Hoe lightning press," and "Hoe's Cylindrical-Bed Press."  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Hoe's 6-cylinder press, from N. Orr's History of the Processes of Manufacture (1864)
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         R. Hoe &amp; Co printing press and saw works, Columbia Street, near East River
        
       
       
      In 1870 Hoe developed a rotary press that printed both sides of a page in a single operation, what he called the "Hoe web perfecting press." Hoe's press used a continuous roll of paper five miles long, which was put through the machine at the rate of 800 feet (240&nbsp;m) a minute. As the roll emerged, it passed over a knife which cut pages apart; they were next run through an apparatus which folded the pages for the mail or for carriers. These completely printed and folded newspapers were delivered as quickly as the eye could follow them. It produced 18,000 papers an hour and was used the first time by the New York Tribune. 
      Hoe was a Freemason. He died while traveling in 1886 in Florence, Italy. His nephew, Robert Hoe (1839–1909), wrote a notable Short History of the Printing Press (1902). He also made further improvements in printing. 
      Although Hoe was known for his rotary printing press, he also had much practice before, since he took on his fathers work after he retired, he perfected many cylinder presses, and he continued to improve, eventually creating his prize invention, the hoe lightning press.  
      Brightside estate 
      Hoe lived with his wife, Mary, and children on a 53-acre (210,000&nbsp;m2) estate, called Brightside, in the Morrisania/Hunts Point section of the Bronx. Richard's brother, Peter Smith Hoe, also had a house (Sunnyslope) on the same estate. This building still stands at the corner of Faile Street and Lafayette Avenue and houses the Bright Temple African Methodist Episcopal Church. His family sold the estate in 1904 to developers speculating on the subway extension into the Bronx. 
      Several streets in the area are named after historical figures in the printing industry. Aldus Street was named after Aldo Manuzio. Guttenberg Street (with two t's) was named after Johannes Gutenberg; it was renamed East 165th Street in 1911. &nbsp;Hoe Avenue runs north from what is now Bruckner Boulevard.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Printer's Park sign (missing the apostrophe)
        
       
       
      Printer's Park is located at the former site of his mansion, at the corner on Aldus Street and Hoe Avenue in the Bronx. The newly reconstructed park re-opened in April 2010, equipped with a play structure inspired by the rotary printing press.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Wilson, J. G.; Fiske, J., eds. (1900). "Hoe, Robert"&nbsp;. Appletons' Cyclopædia of American Biography. New York: D. Appleton.  
         ^ 
           Meggs, Philip B. (1998). A History of Graphic Design (Third&nbsp;ed.). John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. p.&nbsp;147. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-471-29198-5.  
         ^ 
           Hoe, Robert] 1839-1909 (1902). A short history of the printing press and of the improvements in printing machinery from the time of Gutenberg up to the present day. Robarts - University of Toronto. New York, R. Hoe.  
         ^ 
           New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission (July 28, 1981). "SUNNYSLOPE, now Bright Temple A.M .E. Church" (PDF). Internal report of the LPC. Retrieved February 7, 2018. Sunnyslope, an unusually handsome Gothic Revival manor house surviving in the Hunt's Point section of the Bronx, was built in the early 1860s on a 14.6-acre estate belonging to PeterS. Hoe in what was then a rural district of Westchester County.  
         ^ a b 
           "Printers Park Highlights&nbsp;: NYC Parks". www.nycgovparks.org. Retrieved 2020-02-18.  
         ^ 
           Arak, Joey (30 July 2010). "The Other Cool New Playground; 'WTC Mosque' Vote Scheduled".  
         ^ "NYC's Printers Park", cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       Media related to Richard March Hoe at Wikimedia Commons  
      
       An illustration of the Hoe web perfecting press. 
       
        "Hoe (family)"&nbsp;. New International Encyclopedia. 1905. 
       
        "Hoe, Richard Marsh"&nbsp;. Encyclopedia Americana. 1920. 
       
        "Hoe, Richard Marsh"&nbsp;. Collier's New Encyclopedia. 1921. 
       "Old House on the Property of West Farms, Residence of R.M. Hoe", watercolor by D.J. Kennedy, Historical Society of Pennsylvania
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States 
             Netherlands
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Richard_March_Hoe&amp;oldid=1035205661"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1812 births
       1886 deaths
       19th-century American inventors
       Morrisania, Bronx
       People from the Bronx
       Hunts Point, Bronx
       American people of English descent
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Appleton's Cyclopedia
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Collier's Encyclopedia
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Français
       Italiano
       مصرى
       Polski
       Português
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 July 2021, at 09:16&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
