
 
  
   
  Massachusetts - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Massachusetts 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       U.S. state
       
      
      
       This article is about the U.S. state. For the indigenous people, see Massachusett. For other uses, see Massachusetts (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       State in the United States
      
      
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Massachusetts
          
        
        
         
          
           State
          
        
        
         Commonwealth of Massachusetts
        
        
          
           
           
            
             
             
              Flag
             
            
            
             
             
              Seal
             
            
           
          
        
        
         Nickname(s):&nbsp;
          
           The Bay State (official)
           The Pilgrim State; The Puritan State
           The Old Colony State
           The Baked Bean State
          
        
        
         Motto(s):&nbsp;
          
           Ense petit placidam sub libertate quietem (Latin)
           By the sword we seek peace, but peace only under liberty
          
        
        
         Anthem: All Hail to Massachusetts
        
        
         
          
           Map of the United States with Massachusetts highlighted
          
        
        
         Country
         United States
        
        
         Before statehood
         Province of Massachusetts Bay
        
        
         Admitted to the Union
         February 6, 1788 (6th)
        
        
         Capital(and largest city)
         Boston
        
        
         Largest metro and urban areas
         Greater Boston
        
        
         Government
          
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Governor
         Charlie Baker (R)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Lieutenant Governor
         Karyn Polito (R)
        
        
         Legislature
         General Court
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Upper house
         SenatePresident: Karen Spilka (D)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Lower house
         House of RepresentativesSpeaker: Ronald Mariano (D)
        
        
         Judiciary
         Massachusetts Supreme Judicial CourtChief Justice: Kimberly S. Budd
        
        
         U.S. senators
         Elizabeth Warren (D)Ed Markey (D)
        
        
         U.S. House delegation
         9 Democrats (list)
        
        
         Area
          
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Total
         10,565&nbsp;sq&nbsp;mi (27,337&nbsp;km2)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Land
         7,840&nbsp;sq&nbsp;mi (20,306&nbsp;km2)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Water
         2,715&nbsp;sq&nbsp;mi (7,032&nbsp;km2) &nbsp;26.1%
        
        
         Area rank
         44th
        
        
         Dimensions
          
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Length
         190&nbsp;mi (296&nbsp;km)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Width
         115&nbsp;mi (184&nbsp;km)
        
        
         Elevation
          
         500&nbsp;ft (150&nbsp;m)
        
        
         Highest&nbsp;elevation
          
            (Mount Greylock)
          
         3,489&nbsp;ft (1,063.4&nbsp;m)
        
        
         Lowest&nbsp;elevation
          
            (Atlantic Ocean)
          
         0&nbsp;ft (0&nbsp;m)
        
        
         Population
          
           &nbsp;(2020)
          
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Total
         7,033,469
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Rank
         15th
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Density
         897/sq&nbsp;mi (346/km2)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Density&nbsp;rank
         3rd
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Median household income
          
         $77,385
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Income rank
          
         2nd
        
        
         Demonym(s)
         Bay Stater (official) Massachusite (traditional) Massachusettsan (recommended by the U.S. GPO)  Masshole (derogatory or endearing)
        
        
         Language
          
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Official language
         English
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Spoken language
          
          
           English 77.7% 
           Spanish 8.6% 
           Portuguese 2.8%. 
           Chinese 2.1%
           
        
        
         Time zone
         UTC−05:00 (Eastern)
        
        
         &nbsp;•&nbsp;Summer (DST)
         UTC−04:00 (EDT)
        
        
         USPS abbreviation
         
          
           MA
          
        
        
         ISO 3166 code
         US-MA
        
        
         Traditional abbreviation
         Mass.
        
        
         Latitude
         41° 14′ N to 42° 53′ N
        
        
         Longitude
         69° 56′ W to 73° 30′ W
        
        
         Website
         www.mass.gov
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Massachusetts state symbols
        
        
         
          
           Flag of Massachusetts
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Living insignia
        
        
         Bird
         Black-capped chickadee, wild turkey
        
        
         Fish
         Cod
        
        
         Flower
         Mayflower
        
        
         Insect
         Ladybug
        
        
         Mammal
         Right whale, Morgan horse, Tabby cat, Boston Terrier
        
        
         Reptile
         Garter snake
        
        
         Tree
         American elm
        
        
         Inanimate insignia
        
        
         Beverage
         Cranberry juice
        
        
         Colors
         Blue, green, cranberry
        
        
         Dance
         Square dance
        
        
         Food
         Cranberry, corn muffin, navy bean, Boston cream pie, chocolate chip cookie, Boston cream doughnut
        
        
         Fossil
         Dinosaur Tracks
        
        
         Gemstone
         Rhodonite
        
        
         Mineral
         Babingtonite
        
        
         Poem
         Blue Hills of Massachusetts
        
        
         Rock
         Roxbury Puddingstone
        
        
         Shell
         New England Neptune, Neptunea lyrata decemcostata
        
        
         Ship
         Schooner Ernestina
        
        
         Slogan
         Make It Yours,The Spirit of America
        
        
         Soil
         Paxton
        
        
         Sport
         Basketball
        
        
         State route marker
        
        
         
        
        
         State quarter
        
        
         
          
           Released in 2000
          
        
        
         Lists of United States state symbols
        
       
       
      Massachusetts (/ˌmæsəˈtʃuːsɪts/ (listen), /-zɪts/), officially the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, is the most populous state in the New England region of the United States. It borders on the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Maine to the east, Connecticut to the southwest and Rhode Island to the southeast, New Hampshire to the northeast, Vermont to the northwest, and New York to the west. The capital of Massachusetts is Boston, which is also the most populous city in New England. It is home to the Greater Boston metropolitan area, a region influential upon American history, academia, and industry. Originally dependent on agriculture, fishing and trade, Massachusetts was transformed into a manufacturing center during the Industrial Revolution. During the 20th century, Massachusetts's economy shifted from manufacturing to services. Modern Massachusetts is a global leader in biotechnology, engineering, higher education, finance, and maritime trade. 
      Massachusetts was a site of early English colonization: the Plymouth Colony was founded in 1620 by the Pilgrims of the Mayflower, and in 1630 the Massachusetts Bay Colony, taking its name from the indigenous Massachusett people, established settlements in Boston and Salem. In 1692, the town of Salem and surrounding areas experienced one of America's most infamous cases of mass hysteria, the Salem witch trials. In 1777, General Henry Knox founded the Springfield Armory, which, during the Industrial Revolution, catalyzed numerous important technological advances, including interchangeable parts. In 1786, Shays' Rebellion, a populist revolt led by disaffected American Revolutionary War veterans, influenced the United States Constitutional Convention. In the 18th century, the Protestant First Great Awakening, which swept Britain and the Thirteen Colonies, originated from the pulpit of Northampton preacher Jonathan Edwards. In the late 18th century, Boston became known as the "Cradle of Liberty" for the agitation there that later led to the American Revolution. 
      The entire Commonwealth of Massachusetts has played a powerful scientific, commercial, and cultural role in the history of the United States. Before the American Civil War, Massachusetts was a center for the abolitionist, temperance, and transcendentalist movements. In the late 19th century, the sports of basketball and volleyball were invented in the western Massachusetts cities of Springfield and Holyoke, respectively. In 2004, Massachusetts became the first U.S. state to legally recognize same-sex marriage as a result of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court's decision in Goodridge v. Department of Public Health. Many prominent American political dynasties have hailed from the state, including the Adams and Kennedy families. Harvard University in Cambridge is the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States, with the largest financial endowment of any university, and Harvard Law School has educated a contemporaneous majority of Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States. Kendall Square in Cambridge has been called "the most innovative square mile on the planet", in reference to the high concentration of entrepreneurial start-ups and quality of innovation which have emerged in the vicinity of the square since 2010. Both Harvard and MIT, also in Cambridge, are perennially ranked as either the most or among the most highly regarded academic institutions in the world. Massachusetts residents have been described by the World Population Review as having the highest average IQ of all U.S. states, exceeding 104, and the state's public-school students place among the top tier in the world in academic performance. The state has been ranked as one of the top states in the United States for citizens to live in, as well as one of the most expensive.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 History 
          
          2.1 Pre-colonization 
          2.2 Colonial period 
          2.3 The Revolutionary War 
          2.4 Federal period 
          2.5 19th century 
          2.6 20th century 
            
            2.6.1 Notable 20th century politicians 
             
          2.7 21st century 
           
        3 Geography 
          
          3.1 Ecology 
          3.2 Climate 
           
        4 Environmental issues 
          
          4.1 Climate change 
          4.2 Initiatives 
           
        5 Demographics 
          
          5.1 Race and ancestry 
          5.2 Languages 
          5.3 Religion 
           
        6 Education 
        7 Economy 
          
          7.1 Taxation 
          7.2 Energy 
           
        8 Transportation 
          
          8.1 Regional public transportation 
          8.2 Long-distance rail and bus 
          8.3 Ferry 
          8.4 Rail freight 
          8.5 Air service 
          8.6 Roads 
           
        9 Government and politics 
          
          9.1 Government 
          9.2 Politics 
           
        10 Cities, towns, and counties 
        11 Arts, culture, and recreation 
        12 Media 
        13 Health 
        14 Sports 
        15 See also 
        16 Notes 
        17 References 
        18 Bibliography 
        19 Further reading 
          
          19.1 Overviews and surveys 
          19.2 Secondary sources 
           
        20 External links 
        
       
      Etymology 
      The Massachusetts Bay Colony was named after the indigenous population, the Massachusett, whose name likely derived from a Wôpanâak word muswachasut, segmented as mus(ây) "big" + wach8 "mountain" + -s "diminutive" + -ut "locative" (the '8' in these words refers to the 'oo' sound according to the Wôpanâak orthographic chart). It has been translated as "near the great hill", "by the blue hills", "at the little big hill", or "at the range of hills", referring to the Blue Hills, or in particular the Great Blue Hill, which is located on the boundary of Milton and Canton. Alternatively, Massachusett has been represented as Moswetuset—from the name of the Moswetuset Hummock (meaning "hill shaped like an arrowhead") in Quincy, where Plymouth Colony commander Myles Standish (a hired English military officer) and Squanto (a member of the now disappeared Patuxet band of the Wampanoag peoples) met Chief Chickatawbut in 1621. 
      The official name of the state is the "Commonwealth of Massachusetts". While the designation "Commonwealth" forms part of the state's official name, it has no practical implications. Massachusetts has the same position and powers within the United States as other states. John Adams in 1779 may have chosen the word for the second draft of what became the 1780 Massachusetts Constitution because unlike the word "state", "commonwealth" at the time had the connotation of a republic, in contrast to the monarchy the former American colonies were fighting against. (The name "State of Massachusetts Bay" appeared in the first—rejected—draft.)  
      History 
      
      
       Main articles: History of Massachusetts and Native American tribes in Massachusetts
       
      Pre-colonization 
      Massachusetts was originally inhabited by tribes of the Algonquian language family such as the Wampanoag, Narragansett, Nipmuc, Pocomtuc, Mahican, and Massachusett. While cultivation of crops like squash and corn supplemented their diets, these tribes were generally dependent on hunting, gathering and fishing for most of their food. Villages consisted of lodges called wigwams as well as longhouses, and tribes were led by male or female elders known as sachems.  
      Colonial period 
      
      
       Main articles: Mayflower Compact, Plymouth Colony, Massachusetts Bay Colony, New England Confederation, Dominion of New England, and Province of Massachusetts Bay
      
       In the early 1600s, after contact had been made with Europeans, large numbers of the indigenous peoples in the northeastern region of what is now the United States were killed by virgin soil epidemics such as smallpox, measles, influenza, and perhaps leptospirosis. Between 1617 and 1619, what was possibly smallpox killed approximately 90% of the Massachusetts Bay Native Americans.
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Mayflower in Plymouth Harbor by William Halsall (1882). The Pilgrims founded Plymouth in 1620.
        
       
       
      The first English settlers in Massachusetts, the Pilgrims, arrived on the Mayflower at Plymouth in 1620, and developed friendly relations with the native Wampanoag people. This was the second successful permanent English colony in the part of North America that later became the United States, after the Jamestown Colony. The event, known as the "First Thanksgiving", was celebrated by the Pilgrims after their first harvest in the New World, which lasted for three days. The Pilgrims were soon followed by other Puritans, who established the Massachusetts Bay Colony at present-day Boston in 1630. 
      The Puritans, who believed the Church of England needed to be purified and experienced harassment from English authority because of their beliefs, came to Massachusetts intending to establish an ideal religious society. Unlike the Plymouth colony, the Massachusetts Bay Colony was founded under a royal charter in 1629. Both religious dissent and expansionism resulted in several new colonies being founded, shortly after Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay, elsewhere in New England. The Massachusetts Bay banished dissenters such as Anne Hutchinson and Roger Williams due to religious and political disagreements. In 1636, Williams founded the colony of Rhode Island, and Hutchinson joined him there several years later. Religious intolerance continued. Among those who objected to this later in the century were the English Quaker preachers Alice and Thomas Curwen, who were publicly flogged and imprisoned in Boston in 1676. 
      In 1641, Massachusetts expanded inland significantly, acquiring the Connecticut River Valley settlement of Springfield, which had recently disputed with, and defected from its original administrators, the Connecticut Colony. This established Massachusetts's southern border in the west, though surveying problems resulted in disputed territory until 1803–04. 
      Currency was another issue in the colonies. In 1652 the Massachusetts legislature authorized John Hull to produce coinage (mintmaster). "The Hull Mint produced several denominations of silver coinage, including the pine tree shilling, for over 30 years until the political and economic situation made operating the mint no longer practical." Mostly political for Charles&nbsp;II of England deemed the "Hull Mint" high treason in the United Kingdom which had a punishment of Hanging, drawing and quartering. "On April 6, 1681, Randolph petitioned the king, informing him the colony was still pressing their own coins which he saw as high treason and believed it was enough to void the charter. He asked that a writ of Quo warranto (a legal action requiring the defendant to show what authority they have for exercising some right, power, or franchise they claim to hold) be issued against Massachusetts for the violations." 
      In 1691, the colonies of Massachusetts Bay and Plymouth were united (along with present-day Maine, which had previously been divided between Massachusetts and New York) into the Province of Massachusetts Bay. Shortly after the arrival of the new province's first governor, William Phips, the Salem witch trials took place, where a number of men and women were hanged for alleged witchcraft. 
      The most destructive earthquake yet known in New England occurred in 1755, causing considerable damage across Massachusetts.  
      The Revolutionary War 
      
      
       Main articles: American Revolutionary War, Boston campaign, Lee Resolution, United States Declaration of Independence, Northern theater of the American Revolutionary War after Saratoga, Articles of Confederation §&nbsp;Ratification, and Treaty of Paris (1783)
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An illustration of the Battles of Lexington and Concord
        
       
       
      Massachusetts was a center of the movement for independence from Great Britain; colonists in Massachusetts had long uneasy relations with the British monarchy, including open rebellion under the Dominion of New England in the 1680s. Protests against British attempts to tax the colonies after the French and Indian War ended in 1763 led to the Boston Massacre in 1770, and the 1773 Boston Tea Party escalated tensions. In 1774, the Intolerable Acts targeted Massachusetts with punishments for the Boston Tea Party and further decreased local autonomy, increasing local dissent. Anti-Parliamentary activity by men such as Samuel Adams and John Hancock, followed by reprisals by the British government, were a primary reason for the unity of the Thirteen Colonies and the outbreak of the American Revolution in 1775. 
      The Battles of Lexington and Concord initiated the American Revolutionary War and were fought in the eponymous Massachusetts towns. Future President George Washington took over what would become the Continental Army after the battle. His first victory was the Siege of Boston in the winter of 1775–76, after which the British were forced to evacuate the city. The event is still celebrated in Suffolk County as Evacuation Day. On the coast, Salem became a center for privateering. Although the documentation is incomplete, about 1,700 letters of marque, issued on a per-voyage basis, were granted during the American Revolution. Nearly 800 vessels were commissioned as privateers and are credited with capturing or destroying about 600 British ships.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         John Adams, 2nd President of the United States (1797–1801)
        
       
       
      Federal period 
      
      
       Main articles: Constitutional Convention (United States), Admission to the Union, and List of U.S. states by date of admission to the Union
       
      Bostonian John Adams, known as the "Atlas of Independence", was highly involved in both separation from Britain and the Constitution of Massachusetts, which effectively (the Elizabeth Freeman and Quock Walker cases as interpreted by William Cushing) made Massachusetts the first state to abolish slavery. David McCullough points out that an equally important feature was its placing for the first time the courts as a co-equal branch separate from the executive. (The Constitution of Vermont, adopted in 1777, represented the first partial ban on slavery. Vermont became a state in 1791 but did not fully ban slavery until 1858 with the Vermont Personal Liberty Law. The Pennsylvania Gradual Abolition Act of 1780 made Pennsylvania the first state to abolish slavery by statute.) Later, Adams was active in early American foreign affairs and succeeded Washington as the second United States President. His son John Quincy Adams, also from Massachusetts, would go on to become the sixth United States President. 
      From 1786 to 1787, an armed uprising, known as Shays' Rebellion led by Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays wrought havoc throughout Massachusetts and ultimately attempted to seize the Federal armory. The rebellion was one of the major factors in the decision to draft a stronger national constitution to replace the Articles of Confederation. On February 6, 1788, Massachusetts became the sixth state to ratify the United States Constitution.  
      19th century 
      
      
       Main articles: Missouri Compromise and Massachusetts in the American Civil War
       
      In 1820, Maine separated from Massachusetts and entered the Union as the 23rd state as a result of the ratification of the Missouri Compromise.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Textile mills such as the one in Lowell made Massachusetts a leader in the Industrial Revolution.
        
       
       
      During the 19th century, Massachusetts became a national leader in the American Industrial Revolution, with factories around cities such as Lowell and Boston producing textiles and shoes, and factories around Springfield producing tools, paper, and textiles. The economy transformed from one based primarily on agriculture to an industrial one, initially making use of water-power and later the steam engine to power factories. Canals and railroads were used for transporting raw materials and finished goods. At first, the new industries drew labor from Yankees on nearby subsistence farms, and later relied upon immigrant labor from Europe and Canada. 
      Although Massachusetts was the first slave-holding colony dating back to the early 1600s, in the years leading up to the American Civil War, Massachusetts was a center of progressivist and abolitionist activity. Horace Mann made the state's school system a national model. Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson made major contributions to American philosophy. Members of the transcendentalist movement emphasized the importance of the natural world and emotion to humanity. 
      Although significant opposition to abolitionism existed early on in Massachusetts, resulting in anti-abolitionist riots between 1835 and 1837, opposition to slavery gradually increased throughout the next few decades. Abolitionists John Brown and Sojourner Truth lived in Springfield and Northampton, respectively, while Frederick Douglass lived in Boston and Susan B. Anthony in Adams, Massachusetts. The works of such abolitionists contributed to Massachusetts's actions during the Civil War. Massachusetts was the first state to recruit, train, and arm a Black regiment with White officers, the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment. In 1852, Massachusetts became the first state to pass compulsory education laws.  
      20th century 
      With the departure of several manufacturing companies, the area's industrial economy began to decline during the early 20th century. By the 1920s, competition from the South and Midwest, followed by the Great Depression, led to the collapse of the three main industries in Massachusetts: textiles, shoemaking, and precision mechanics. This decline would continue into the latter half of the century; between 1950 and 1979, the number of Massachusetts residents involved in textile manufacturing declined from 264,000 to 63,000. The 1969 closure of the Springfield Armory, in particular, spurred an exodus of high-paying jobs from Western Massachusetts, which suffered greatly as it de-industrialized during the last 40 years of the 20th century. 
      Massachusetts manufactured 3.4 percent of total United States military armaments produced during World War&nbsp;II, ranking tenth among the 48 states. In Eastern Massachusetts, following World War&nbsp;II, the economy was transformed from one based on heavy industry into a service-based economy. Government contracts, private investment, and research facilities led to a new and improved industrial climate, with reduced unemployment and increased per capita income. Suburbanization flourished, and by the 1970s, the Route 128 corridor was dotted with high-technology companies who recruited graduates of the area's many elite institutions of higher education. 
      In 1987, the state received federal funding for the Central Artery/Tunnel Project. Commonly known as "the Big Dig", it was, at the time, the biggest federal highway project ever approved. The project included making the Central Artery a tunnel under downtown Boston, in addition to the re-routing of several other major highways. Often controversial, with numerous claims of graft and mismanagement, and with its initial price tag of $2.5&nbsp;billion increasing to a final tally of over $15&nbsp;billion, the Big Dig nonetheless changed the face of Downtown Boston. It connected areas that were once divided by elevated highway (much of the raised old Central Artery was replaced with the Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy Greenway), and improved traffic conditions along with several routes.  
      Notable 20th century politicians 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         John F. Kennedy, Massachusetts native and 35th President of the United States (1961–1963)
        
       
       
      The Kennedy family was prominent in Massachusetts politics in the 20th century. Children of businessman and ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. included John F. Kennedy, who was a senator and U.S. president before his assassination in 1963, and Ted Kennedy, a senator from 1962 until his death in 2009, and Eunice Kennedy Shriver, a co-founder of the Special Olympics. In 1966, Massachusetts became the first state to directly elect an African American to the U.S. senate with Edward Brooke. George H. W. Bush, 41st President of the United States (1989–1993) was born in Milton in 1924. Other notable Bay State politicians on the national level included John W. McCormack, Speaker of the House in the 1960s, and Tip O'Neill, whose service as Speaker of the House from 1977 to 1987 was the longest continuous tenure in United States history.  
      21st century 
      On May 17, 2004, Massachusetts became the first state in the U.S. to legalize same-sex marriage after a Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruling in November 2003 determined that the exclusion of same-sex couples from the right to a civil marriage was unconstitutional. This decision was eventually superseded by the U.S. Supreme Court's affirmation of same-sex marriage in the United States in 2015. 
      In 2004, Massachusetts senator John Kerry who won the Democratic nomination for President of the United States narrowly lost to incumbent George W. Bush. Eight years later, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney (Republican nominee) lost to Barack Obama in 2012. Another eight years later, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren was a frontrunner in the Democratic primaries for the 2020 Presidential Election, but suspended her campaign and then endorsed presumptive nominee Joe Biden.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boston Marathon bombing
        
       
       
      Two pressure cooker bombs exploded near the finish line of the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013, at around 2:49 pm EDT. The explosions killed three people and injured an estimated 264 others. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) later identified the suspects as brothers Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. The ensuing manhunt ended on April 19 when thousands of law enforcement officers searched a 20-block area of nearby Watertown. Dzhokhar later said he was motivated by extremist Islamic beliefs and learned to build explosive devices from Inspire, the online magazine of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. 
      On November 8, 2016, Massachusetts voted in favor of the Massachusetts Marijuana Legalization Initiative, also known as Question 4. It was included in the 2016 United States presidential election ballot in Massachusetts as an indirectly initiated state statute.  
      Geography 
      
      
       Main articles: Geography of Massachusetts and Geology of New England
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A portion of the north-central Pioneer Valley in South Deerfield
        
       
       
      Massachusetts is the 7th-smallest state in the United States. It is located in the New England region of the Northeastern United States and has an area of 10,555 square miles (27,340&nbsp;km2), 25.7% of which is water. Several large bays distinctly shape its coast. Boston is the largest city, at the inmost point of Massachusetts Bay, and the mouth of the Charles River. 
      Despite its small size, Massachusetts features numerous topographically distinctive regions. The large coastal plain of the Atlantic Ocean in the eastern section of the state contains Greater Boston, along with most of the state's population, as well as the distinctive Cape Cod peninsula. To the west lies the hilly, rural region of Central Massachusetts, and beyond that, the Connecticut River Valley. Along the western border of Western Massachusetts lies the highest elevated part of the state, the Berkshires, forming a portion of the northern terminus of the Appalachian Mountains. 
      The U.S. National Park Service administers a number of natural and historical sites in Massachusetts. Along with twelve national historic sites, areas, and corridors, the National Park Service also manages the Cape Cod National Seashore and the Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area. In addition, the Department of Conservation and Recreation maintains a number of parks, trails, and beaches throughout Massachusetts.  
      Ecology 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Many coastal areas in Massachusetts provide breeding areas for species such as the piping plover.
        
       
       
      The primary biome of inland Massachusetts is temperate deciduous forest. Although much of Massachusetts had been cleared for agriculture, leaving only traces of old-growth forest in isolated pockets, secondary growth has regenerated in many rural areas as farms have been abandoned. Currently, forests cover around 62% of Massachusetts. The areas most affected by human development include the Greater Boston area in the east and the Springfield metropolitan area in the west, although the latter includes agricultural areas throughout the Connecticut River Valley. There are currently 219 endangered species in Massachusetts. 
      A number of species are doing well in the increasingly urbanized Massachusetts. Peregrine falcons utilize office towers in larger cities as nesting areas, and the population of coyotes, whose diet may include garbage and roadkill, has been increasing in recent decades. White-tailed deer, raccoons, wild turkeys, and eastern gray squirrels are also found throughout Massachusetts. In more rural areas in the western part of Massachusetts, larger mammals such as moose and black bears have returned, largely due to reforestation following the regional decline in agriculture. 
      Massachusetts is located along the Atlantic Flyway, a major route for migratory waterfowl along the eastern coast. Lakes in central Massachusetts provide habitat for many species of fish and waterfowl, but some species such as the common loon are becoming rare. A significant population of long-tailed ducks winter off Nantucket. Small offshore islands and beaches are home to roseate terns and are important breeding areas for the locally threatened piping plover. Protected areas such as the Monomoy National Wildlife Refuge provide critical breeding habitat for shorebirds and a variety of marine wildlife including a large population of grey seals. Since 2009, there has been a significant increase in the number of Great white sharks spotted and tagged in the coastal waters off of Cape Cod. 
      Freshwater fish species in Massachusetts include bass, carp, catfish, and trout, while saltwater species such as Atlantic cod, haddock, and American lobster populate offshore waters. Other marine species include Harbor seals, the endangered North Atlantic right whales, as well as humpback whales, fin whales, minke whales, and Atlantic white-sided dolphins. 
      The European corn borer, a significant agricultural pest, was first found in North America near Boston, Massachusetts in 1917.  
      Climate 
      
      
       Main article: Climate of Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Köppen climate types in Massachusetts
        
       
       
      Most of Massachusetts has a humid continental climate, with cold winters and warm summers. Far southeast coastal areas are the broad transition zone to Humid Subtropical climates. The warm to hot summers render the oceanic climate rare in this transition, only applying to exposed coastal areas such as on the peninsula of Barnstable County. The climate of Boston is quite representative for the commonwealth, characterized by summer highs of around 81&nbsp;°F (27&nbsp;°C) and winter highs of 35&nbsp;°F (2&nbsp;°C), and is quite wet. Frosts are frequent all winter, even in coastal areas due to prevailing inland winds. Due to its location near the Atlantic, Massachusetts is vulnerable to nor'easters, hurricanes and tropical storms.  
       
       
        Average daily maximum and minimum temperatures for selected cities in Massachusetts 
        
       
         
         Location  
         July (°F)  
         July (°C)  
         January (°F)  
         January (°C) 
         
         
         Boston 
         81/65 
         27/18 
         36/22 
         2/−5 
         
         
         Worcester 
         79/61 
         26/16 
         31/17 
         0/−8 
         
         
         Springfield 
         84/62 
         27/17 
         34/17 
         1/−8 
         
         
         New Bedford 
         80/65 
         26/18 
         37/23 
         3/−4 
         
         
         Quincy 
         80/61 
         26/16 
         33/18 
         1/−7 
         
         
         Plymouth 
         80/61 
         27/16 
         38/20 
         3/−6 
        
       
       
      Environmental issues 
      Climate change 
      
      
       Main article: Climate change in Massachusetts
       
      Climate change in Massachusetts will affect both urban and rural environments, including forestry, fisheries, agriculture, and coastal development. The Northeast is projected to warm faster than global average temperatures; by 2035, the Northeast is "projected to be more than 3.6°F (2°C) warmer on average than during the preindustrial era". As of August 2016, the EPA reports that Massachusetts has warmed by over two degrees Fahrenheit, or 1.1 degrees Celsius. This is almost twice as much as the average for the contiguous United States. Shifting temperatures also result in the shifting of rainfall patterns and the intensification of precipitation events. To that end, average precipitation in the Northeast United States has risen by ten percent from 1895 to 2011, and the number of heavy precipitation events has increased by seventy percent during that time. These increased precipitation patterns are focused in the winter and spring. Increasing temperatures coupled with increasing precipitation will result in earlier snow melts and subsequent drier soil in the summer months. 
      The shifting climate in Massachusetts will result in a significant change to the built environment and ecosystems. In Boston alone, costs of climate change-related storms will result in 5 to 100 billion dollars in damage. These costs are attributed to expected coastal home damage, roadway destruction, and existing utility infrastructure exposure. Warmer temperatures will also disrupt the migration of birds and the blooming of flora. With these changes, deer populations are expected to increase, resulting in a decrease in underbrush which smaller fauna use as camouflage. Additionally, rising temperatures will increase the number of reported Lyme disease cases in the state. Ticks can transmit the disease once temperatures reach 45 degrees, so shorter winters will increase the window of transmission. These warmer temperatures will also increase the prevalence of mosquitos, a carrier of the West Nile virus. 
      To combat this change, the state of Massachusetts’ Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs has outlined a path to decarbonization of the state's economy. On April 22, 2020, the Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs of Massachusetts, Kathleen A. Theoharides, released a Determination of Statewide Emissions limits for 2050. In her letter, Theoharides stresses that as of 2020, the Commonwealth has experienced property damage attributable to climate change of more than $60 billion. To ensure that the Commonwealth experiences warming no more than 1.5&nbsp;°C of pre-industrialization levels, the state will work to achieve net-zero emissions and the overall reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 85 percent by the year 2050.  
      Initiatives 
      
      
       Main articles: Solar power in Massachusetts and Wind power in Massachusetts
       
      The State of Massachusetts has developed a plethora of incentives to encourage the implementation of renewable energy and efficient appliances and home facilities. Mass Save has been formed in conjunction with the State by Berkshire Gas, Blackstone Gas Company, Cape Light Compact, Eversource, Liberty Utilities, National Grid and Unitil to provide homeowners and renters with incentives to retrofit their homes with efficient HVAC equipment and other household appliances. For example, up to a 100-dollar rebate can be obtained for upgrading to an ENERGY STAR certified smart or programmable thermostat. Other appliances such as water heaters, air conditioners, washers and driers, and heat pumps are eligible for additional rebates. 
      The concept of Mass Save was created in 2008 by the passing of the Green Communities Act of 2008 during Deval Patrick’s tenure as governor. The main goal of the Green Communities Act was to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels in the State and to encourage new, more efficient technologies. Among others, one result of this act was a requirement for Program Administrators of utilities to invest in saving energy, as opposed to purchasing and generating additional energy where economically feasible. In Massachusetts, eleven Program Administrators, including NSTAR, National Grid, Western Massachusetts Electric, Cape Light Compact, Until, and Berkshire Gas, jointly own the rights to this program, in conjunction with the MA Department of Energy Resources (DOER) and the Energy Efficiency Advisory Council (EEAC). 
      Mass Save also conducts no-cost in-home energy assessments so that homeowners, renters, and small business owners may educate themselves about energy efficiency-related home improvements and find opportunities to save money and energy. During the home assessment, Mass Save provides ENERGY STAR certified LED light bulbs, power strips, low flow showerheads, faucet aerators, and efficient thermostats free of charge. Additionally, air leaks will be detected in the home or building and patched, and recommendations will be made to install additional insulation to decrease the loss of heated or cooled air. Discounts of 75 percent or more are available on these insulation improvements. Due to COVID-19, Mass Save is currently conducting assessments remotely. Residents can schedule a remote assessment using the program's website or phone line. 
      The State Revenue Service provides incentives for the installation of solar panels. In addition to the Federal Residential Renewable energy credit, Massachusetts residents may be eligible for a tax credit of up to 15 percent of the project. Once installed, arrays are eligible for net metering. Certain municipalities will offer up to $1.20 per watt, up to 50 percent of the system's cost on PV arrays 25&nbsp;kW or less. The Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources also offers low-interest, fixed-rate financing with loan support for low-income residents. This program is currently set to terminate on December 31, 2020. 
      As a part of the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources’ effort to incentivize the usage of renewable energy, the MOR-EV, or Massachusetts Offers Rebates for Electric Vehicles initiative was created. With this incentive, residents may qualify for a State incentive of up to $2,500 dollars for the purchase or lease of an electric vehicle, or $1,500 for the purchase or lease of a plug-in hybrid vehicle. This rebate is available in addition to the tax credits offered by the United States Department of Energy for the purchase of electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles. 
      For income-eligible residents, Mass Save has partnered with Massachusetts Community Action Program Agencies and Low-Income Energy Affordability Network (LEAN) to offer residents assistance with upgrades to their homes that will result in more efficient energy usage. Residents may qualify for a replacement of their heating system, insulation installation, appliances, and thermostats if they meet the income qualifications provided on Mass Save's website. For residents of 5+ family residential buildings, there are additional income-restricted benefits available through LEAN. If at least 50 percent of the residents of the building qualify as low income, energy efficiency improvements like those available through Mass Save are available. Residential structures operated by non-profit organizations, for profit operations, or housing authorities may take advantage of these programs. 
      In late 2020, the Baker Administration released a Decarbonization Roadmap that aims for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The plan calls for major investments in offshore wind and solar energy and would require all new automobiles sold to be zero-emissions (electric or hydrogen powered) by 2035.  
      Demographics 
      
      
       Main articles: Demographics of Massachusetts and List of people from Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Massachusetts population density map. The centers of high-density settlement, from east to west, are Boston, Worcester, Springfield, and Pittsfield, respectively.
        
       
       
       
       
         
         Historical population 
         
         
         Census 
         Pop. 
          
         %± 
        
        
         1790
         378,787
         
         —
        
        
         1800
         422,845
         
         11.6%
        
        
         1810
         472,040
         
         11.6%
        
        
         1820
         523,287
         
         10.9%
        
        
         1830
         610,408
         
         16.6%
        
        
         1840
         737,699
         
         20.9%
        
        
         1850
         994,514
         
         34.8%
        
        
         1860
         1,231,066
         
         23.8%
        
        
         1870
         1,457,351
         
         18.4%
        
        
         1880
         1,783,085
         
         22.4%
        
        
         1890
         2,238,947
         
         25.6%
        
        
         1900
         2,805,346
         
         25.3%
        
        
         1910
         3,366,416
         
         20.0%
        
        
         1920
         3,852,356
         
         14.4%
        
        
         1930
         4,249,614
         
         10.3%
        
        
         1940
         4,316,721
         
         1.6%
        
        
         1950
         4,690,514
         
         8.7%
        
        
         1960
         5,148,578
         
         9.8%
        
        
         1970
         5,689,170
         
         10.5%
        
        
         1980
         5,737,037
         
         0.8%
        
        
         1990
         6,016,425
         
         4.9%
        
        
         2000
         6,349,097
         
         5.5%
        
        
         2010
         6,547,629
         
         3.1%
        
        
         2020
         7,029,917
         
         7.4%
        
        
         
         
       
       
      At the 2020 U.S. census, Massachusetts had a population of over 7 million, a 7.4% increase since the 2010 United States census. As of 2015, Massachusetts was estimated to be the third-most densely populated U.S. state, with 871.0 people per square mile, behind New Jersey and Rhode Island. In 2014, Massachusetts had 1,011,811 foreign-born residents or 15% of the population. 
      Most Bay State residents live within the Boston metropolitan area, also known as Greater Boston, which includes Boston and its proximate surroundings but also extending to Greater Lowell and to Worcester. The Springfield metropolitan area, also known as Greater Springfield, is also a major center of population. Demographically, the center of population of Massachusetts is located in the town of Natick. 
      Like the rest of the Northeastern United States, the population of Massachusetts has continued to grow in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. Massachusetts is the fastest-growing state in New England and the 25th fastest-growing state in the United States. Population growth was largely due to a relatively high quality of life and a large higher education system in the state. 
      Foreign immigration is also a factor in the state's population growth, causing the state's population to continue to grow as of the 2010 Census (particularly in Massachusetts gateway cities where costs of living are lower). 40% of foreign immigrants were from Central or South America, according to a 2005 Census Bureau study, with many of the remainder from Asia. Many residents who have settled in Greater Springfield claim Puerto Rican descent. Many areas of Massachusetts showed relatively stable population trends between 2000 and 2010. Exurban Boston and coastal areas grew the most rapidly, while Berkshire County in far Western Massachusetts and Barnstable County on Cape Cod were the only counties to lose population as of the 2010 Census. 
      By sex, 48.4% were male, and 51.6% were female in 2014. In terms of age, 79.2% were over 18 and 14.8% were over 65.  
      Race and ancestry 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Saint Patrick's Day parade in Scituate, the municipality with the highest percentage identifying Irish ancestry in the United States, at 47.5% in 2010. Irish Americans constitute the largest ethnicity in Massachusetts.
        
       
       
       
       
        Ethnic composition as of the 2020 census 
        
       
         
         Race and Ethnicity  
         Alone  
         Total 
         
         
         White (non-Hispanic)  
         67.6%  
         67.6
          
           &nbsp;
            
         71.4%  
         71.4
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         Hispanic or Latino  
         —  
           
         12.6%  
         12.6
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         African American (non-Hispanic)  
         6.5%  
         6.5
          
           &nbsp;
            
         8.2%  
         8.2
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         Asian  
         7.2%  
         7.2
          
           &nbsp;
            
         8.2%  
         8.2
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         Native American  
         0.1%  
         0.1
          
           &nbsp;
            
         0.9%  
         0.9
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         Pacific Islander  
         0.02%  
         0.02
          
           &nbsp;
            
         0.1%  
         0.1
          
           &nbsp;
           
         
         
         Other  
         1.3%  
         1.3
          
           &nbsp;
            
         3.6%  
         3.6
          
           &nbsp;
           
        
       
       
      The state's most populous ethnic group, non-Hispanic white, has declined from 95.4% in 1970 to 67.6% in 2020. As of 2011, non-Hispanic whites were involved in 63.6% of all the births, while 36.4% of the population of Massachusetts younger than age&nbsp;1 was minorities (at least one parent who was not non-Hispanic white). One major reason for this is that non-Hispanic whites in Massachusetts recorded a total fertility rate of 1.36 in 2017, the second-lowest in the country after neighboring Rhode Island. 
      As late as 1795, the population of Massachusetts was nearly 95% of English ancestry. During the early and mid-19th century, immigrant groups began arriving in Massachusetts in large numbers; first from Ireland in the 1840s; today the Irish and part-Irish are the largest ancestry group in the state at nearly 25% of the total population. Others arrived later from Quebec as well as places in Europe such as Italy, Portugal, and Poland. In the early 20th century, a number of African Americans migrated to Massachusetts, although in somewhat fewer numbers than many other Northern states. Later in the 20th century, immigration from Latin America increased considerably. More than 156,000 Chinese Americans made their home in Massachusetts in 2014, and Boston hosts a growing Chinatown accommodating heavily traveled Chinese-owned bus lines to and from Chinatown, Manhattan in New York City. Massachusetts also has large Dominican, Puerto Rican, Haitian, Cape Verdean and Brazilian populations. Boston's South End and Jamaica Plain are both gay villages, as is nearby Provincetown, Massachusetts on Cape Cod.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boston's Chinatown, with its paifang gate, is home to many Chinese and also Vietnamese restaurants.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boston gay pride march, held annually in June. In 2004 Massachusetts became the first U.S. state to legalize same-sex marriage.
        
       
       
      The largest ancestry group in Massachusetts are the Irish (22.5% of the population), who live in significant numbers throughout the state but form more than 40% of the population along the South Shore in Norfolk and Plymouth counties (in both counties overall, Irish-Americans comprise more than 30% of the population). Italians form the second-largest ethnic group in the state (13.5%), but form a plurality in some suburbs north of Boston and in a few towns in the Berkshires. English Americans, the third-largest (11.4%) group, form a plurality in some western towns. French and French Canadians also form a significant part (10.7%), with sizable populations in Bristol, Hampden, and Worcester Counties. Lowell is home to the second-largest Cambodian community of the nation. Massachusetts is home to a small community of Greek Americans as well, which according to the American Community Survey there are 83,701 of them scattered along the state (1.2% of the total state population). There are also several populations of Native Americans in Massachusetts. The Wampanoag tribe maintains reservations at Aquinnah on Martha's Vineyard and at Mashpee on Cape Cod—with an ongoing native language revival project underway since 1993, while the Nipmuc maintain two state-recognized reservations in the central part of the state, including one at Grafton. 
      Massachusetts has avoided many forms of racial strife seen elsewhere in the US, but examples such as the successful electoral showings of the nativist (mainly anti-Catholic) Know Nothings in the 1850s, the controversial Sacco and Vanzetti executions in the 1920s, and Boston's opposition to desegregation busing in the 1970s show that the ethnic history of Massachusetts was not completely harmonious.  
      Languages 
      The most common varieties of American English spoken in Massachusetts, other than General American, are the cot-caught distinct, rhotic, western Massachusetts dialect and the cot-caught merged, non-rhotic, eastern Massachusetts dialect (popularly known as a "Boston accent").  
       
       
        Top 11 Non-English Languages Spoken in Massachusetts 
        
       
         
         Language 
         Percentage of population(as of 2010) 
         
         
         Spanish 
         7.50% 
         
         
         Portuguese 
         2.97% 
         
         
         Chinese (including Cantonese and Mandarin) 
         1.59% 
         
         
         French (including New England French) 
         1.11% 
         
         
         French Creole 
         0.89% 
         
         
         Italian 
         0.72% 
         
         
         Russian 
         0.62% 
         
         
         Vietnamese 
         0.58% 
         
         
         Greek 
         0.41% 
         
         
         Arabic and Khmer (Cambodian) (including all Austroasiatic languages) (tied) 
         0.37% 
        
       
       
      As of 2010, 78.93% (4,823,127) of Massachusetts residents&nbsp;5 and older spoke English at home as a first language, while 7.50% (458,256) spoke Spanish, 2.97% (181,437) Portuguese, 1.59% (96,690) Chinese (which includes Cantonese and Mandarin), 1.11% (67,788) French, 0.89% (54,456) French Creole, 0.72% (43,798) Italian, 0.62% (37,865) Russian, and Vietnamese was spoken as a primary language by 0.58% (35,283) of the population over&nbsp;5. In total, 21.07% (1,287,419) of Massachusetts's population&nbsp;5 and older spoke a first language other than English.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Built in 1681, the Old Ship Church in Hingham is the oldest church in America in continuous ecclesiastical use. Massachusetts has since become one of the most irreligious states in the U.S.
        
       
       
      Religion 
      Massachusetts was founded and settled by Brownist Puritans in 1620 and soon after by other groups of Separatists/Dissenters, Nonconformists and Independents from 17th century England. A majority of people in Massachusetts today remain Christians. The descendants of the Puritans belong to many different churches; in the direct line of inheritance are the various Congregational churches, the United Church of Christ and congregations of the Unitarian Universalist Association. The headquarters of the Unitarian Universalist Association, long located on Beacon Hill, is now located in South Boston. Many Puritan descendants also dispersed to other Protestant denominations. Some disaffiliated along with Roman Catholics and other Christian groups in the wake of modern secularization. 
      Today, Christians make up 57% of the state's population, with Protestants making up 21% of them. Roman Catholics make up 34% and now predominate because of massive immigration from primarily Catholic countries and regions—chiefly Ireland, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Quebec, and Latin America. Both Protestant and Roman Catholic communities have been in decline since the late 20th century, due to the rise of irreligion in New England. It is the most irreligious region of the country, along with the Western United States. A significant Jewish population immigrated to the Boston and Springfield areas between 1880 and 1920. Jews currently make up 3% of the population. Mary Baker Eddy made the Boston Mother Church of Christian Science serve as the world headquarters of this new religious movement. Buddhists, Pagans, Hindus, Seventh-day Adventists, Muslims, and Mormons may also be found. Kripalu Center in Stockbridge, the Shaolin Meditation Temple in Springfield, and the Insight Meditation Center in Barre are examples of non-Abrahamic religious centers in Massachusetts. According to 2010 data from The Association of Religion Data Archives, (ARDA) the largest single denominations are the Catholic Church with 2,940,199 adherents; the United Church of Christ with 86,639 adherents; and the Episcopal Church with 81,999 adherents. 32% of the population identifies as having no religion.  
      Education 
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          Harvard University and MIT are both widely regarded as in the top handful of universities worldwide for academic research in various disciplines. (Shown are the Widener Library at Harvard and MIT Building 10.)
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Further information: List of colleges and universities in Massachusetts, List of engineering schools in Massachusetts, List of high schools in Massachusetts, List of school districts in Massachusetts, Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, Massachusetts Department of Higher Education, and University of Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Towns in Massachusetts by combined mean SAT of their public high school district for the 2015–2016 academic year
        
       
       
      In 2018, Massachusetts's overall educational system was ranked the top among all fifty U.S. states by U.S. News &amp; World Report. Massachusetts was the first state in North America to require municipalities to appoint a teacher or establish a grammar school with the passage of the Massachusetts Education Law of 1647, and 19th century reforms pushed by Horace Mann laid much of the groundwork for contemporary universal public education which was established in 1852. Massachusetts is home to the oldest school in continuous existence in North America (The Roxbury Latin School, founded in 1645), as well as the country's oldest public elementary school (The Mather School, founded in 1639), its oldest high school (Boston Latin School, founded in 1635), its oldest continuously operating boarding school (The Governor's Academy, founded in 1763), its oldest college (Harvard University, founded in 1636), and its oldest women's college (Mount Holyoke College, founded in 1837). Massachusetts is also home to the highest ranked private high school in the United States, Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, which was founded in 1778. 
      Massachusetts's per-student public expenditure for elementary and secondary schools was eighth in the nation in 2012, at $14,844. In 2013, Massachusetts scored highest of all the states in math and third-highest in reading on the National Assessment of Educational Progress. Massachusetts' public-school students place among the top tier in the world in academic performance. 
      Massachusetts is home to 121 institutions of higher education. Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, both located in Cambridge, consistently rank among the world's best private universities and universities in general. In addition to Harvard and MIT, several other Massachusetts universities currently rank in the top 50 at the undergraduate level nationally in the widely cited rankings of U.S. News and World Report: Tufts University (#27), Boston College (#32), Brandeis University (#34), Boston University (#37) and Northeastern University (#40). Massachusetts is also home to three of the top five U.S. News and World Report's best Liberal Arts Colleges: Williams College (#1), Amherst College (#2), and Wellesley College (#4). Boston Architectural College is New England's largest private college of spatial design. The public University of Massachusetts (nicknamed UMass) features five campuses in the state, with its flagship campus in Amherst, which enrolls more than 25,000.  
      Economy 
      
      
       See also: List of Massachusetts locations by per capita income and Category:Economy of Massachusetts
       
      The United States Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that the Massachusetts gross state product in 2020 was $584&nbsp;billion. The per capita personal income in 2012 was $53,221, making it the third-highest state in the nation. As of January 2021, Massachusetts state general minimum wage is $13.50 per hour while the minimum wage for tipped workers is $5.55 an hour. 
      In 2015, twelve Fortune 500 companies were located in Massachusetts: Liberty Mutual, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, TJX Companies, General Electric, Raytheon, American Tower, Global Partners, Thermo Fisher Scientific, State Street Corporation, Biogen, Eversource Energy, and Boston Scientific. CNBC's list of "Top States for Business for 2014" has recognized Massachusetts as the 25th-best state in the nation for business, and for the second year in a row the state was ranked by Bloomberg as the most innovative state in America. According to a 2013 study by Phoenix Marketing International, Massachusetts had the sixth-largest number of millionaires per capita in the United States, with a ratio of 6.73 percent. Billionaires living in the state include past and present leaders (and related family) of local companies such as Fidelity Investments, New Balance, Kraft Group, Boston Scientific, and the former Continental Cablevision. 
      Massachusetts has three foreign-trade zones, the Massachusetts Port Authority of Boston, the Port of New Bedford, and the City of Holyoke. Boston-Logan International Airport is the busiest airport in New England, serving 33.4&nbsp;million total passengers in 2015, and witnessing rapid growth in international air traffic since 2010. 
      Sectors vital to the Massachusetts economy include higher education, biotechnology, information technology, finance, health care, tourism, manufacturing, and defense. The Route 128 corridor and Greater Boston continue to be a major center for venture capital investment, and high technology remains an important sector. In recent years tourism has played an ever-important role in the state's economy, with Boston and Cape Cod being the leading destinations. Other popular tourist destinations include Salem, Plymouth, and the Berkshires. Massachusetts is the sixth-most popular tourist destination for foreign travelers. In 2010, the Great Places in Massachusetts Commission published '1,000 Great Places in Massachusetts' that identified 1,000 sites across the commonwealth to highlight the diverse historic, cultural, and natural attractions.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Sunset at Brewster, on Cape Cod Bay.
        
       
       
      While manufacturing comprised less than 10% of Massachusetts's gross state product in 2016, the Commonwealth ranked 16th in the nation in total manufacturing output in the United States. This includes a diverse array of manufactured goods such as medical devices, paper goods, specialty chemicals and plastics, telecommunications and electronics equipment, and machined components. 
      As of 2012, there were 7,755 farms in Massachusetts encompassing a total of 523,517 acres (2,120&nbsp;km2), averaging 67.5 acres (27.3 hectares) apiece. Particular agricultural products of note include green house products making up more than one third of the state's agricultural output, cranberries, sweet corn and apples are also large sectors of production. Massachusetts is the second-largest cranberry-producing state in the union after Wisconsin. 
      The more than 33,000 nonprofits in Massachusetts employ one-sixth of the state's workforce. In 2007, Governor Deval Patrick signed into law a state holiday, Nonprofit Awareness Day. 
      In February 2017, U.S. News &amp; World Report ranked Massachusetts the best state in the United States based upon 60 metrics including healthcare, education, crime, infrastructure, opportunity, economy, and government. The Bay State ranked number one in education, number two in healthcare, and number five in the handling of the economy.  
      Taxation 
      Depending on how it is calculated, state and local tax burden in Massachusetts has been estimated among U.S. states and Washington D.C. as 21st-highest (11.44% or $6,163 per year for a household with nationwide median income) or 25th-highest overall with below-average corporate taxes (39th-highest), above-average personal income taxes, (13th-highest), above-average sales tax (18th-highest), and below-average property taxes (46th-highest). In the 1970s, the Commonwealth ranked as a relatively high-tax state, gaining the pejorative nickname "Taxachusetts". This was followed by a round of tax limitations during the 1980s—a conservative period in American politics—including Proposition 2½. 
      As of January 1, 2020, Massachusetts has a flat-rate personal income tax of 5.00%, after a 2002 voter referendum to eventually lower the rate to 5.0% as amended by the legislature. There is a tax exemption for income below a threshold that varies from year to year. The corporate income tax rate is 8.8%, and the short-term capital gains tax rate is 12%. An unusual provision allows filers to voluntarily pay at the pre-referendum 5.85% income tax rate, which is done by between one and two thousand taxpayers per year. 
      The state imposes a 6.25% sales tax on retail sales of tangible personal property—except for groceries, clothing (up to $175.00), and periodicals. The sales tax is charged on clothing that costs more than $175.00, for the amount exceeding $175.00. Massachusetts also charges a use tax when goods are bought from other states and the vendor does not remit Massachusetts sales tax; taxpayers report and pay this on their income tax forms or dedicated forms, though there are "safe harbor" amounts that can be paid without tallying up actual purchases (except for purchases over $1,000). There is no inheritance tax and limited Massachusetts estate tax related to federal estate tax collection.  
      Energy 
      
      
       Further information: Solar power in Massachusetts, Wind power in Massachusetts, and Category:Energy in Massachusetts
       
      Massachusetts's electricity generation market was made competitive in 1998, enabling retail customers to change suppliers without changing utility companies. In 2018, Massachusetts consumed 1,459&nbsp;trillion BTU, making it the seventh-lowest state in terms of consumption of energy per capita, and 31 percent of that energy came from natural gas. In 2014 and 2015, Massachusetts was ranked as the most energy efficient state the United States while Boston is the most efficient city, but it had the fourth-highest average residential retail electricity prices of any state. In 2018, renewable energy was about 7.2 percent of total energy consumed in the state, ranking 34th.  
      Transportation 
      
      
       Main pages: Massachusetts Department of Transportation, Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, and Category:Transportation in Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, serving Greater Boston
        
       
       
      Massachusetts has 10 regional metropolitan planning organizations and three non-metropolitan planning organizations covering the remainder of the state; statewide planning is handled by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Transportation is the single largest source of greenhouse gas emissions by economic sector in Massachusetts.  
      Regional public transportation 
      The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), also known as "The&nbsp;T", operates public transportation in the form of subway, bus, and ferry systems in the Metro Boston area. 
      Fifteen other regional transit authorities provide public transportation in the form of bus services in the rest of the state. Four heritage railways are also in operation:  
      
       The Cape Cod Central Railroad, operating from Hyannis to Buzzard's Bay 
       The Berkshire Scenic Railway, operating from Lee to Great Barrington 
       Edaville Railroad in Carver 
       The Lowell National Historical Park Trolley Line in Lowell
       
      Long-distance rail and bus 
      Amtrak operates several inter-city rail lines connecting Massachusetts. Boston's South Station serves as the terminus for three lines, namely the high-speed Acela Express, which links to cities such as Providence, New Haven, New York City, and eventually Washington DC; the Northeast Regional, which follows the same route but includes many more stops, and also continues further south to Newport News in Virginia; and the Lake Shore Limited, which runs westward to Worcester, Springfield, and eventually Chicago. Boston's other major station, North Station, serves as the southern terminus for Amtrak's Downeaster, which connects to Portland and Brunswick in Maine. 
      Outside of Boston, Amtrak connects several cities across Massachusetts, along the aforementioned Acela, Northeast Regional, Lake Shore Limited, and Downeaster lines, as well as other routes in central and western Massachusetts. The Hartford Line connects Springfield to New Haven, operated in conjunction with the Connecticut Department of Transportation, and the Valley Flyer runs a similar route but continues further north to Greenfield. Several stations in western Massachusetts are also served by the Vermonter, which connects St. Albans, Vermont to Washington DC. 
      Amtrak carries more passengers between Boston and New York than all airlines combined (about 54% of market share in 2012), but service between other cities is less frequent. There, more frequent intercity service is provided by private bus carriers, including Peter Pan Bus Lines (headquartered in Springfield), Greyhound Lines, OurBus and BoltBus. Various Chinatown bus lines depart for New York from South Station in Boston. 
      MBTA Commuter Rail services run throughout the larger Greater Boston area, including service to Worcester, Fitchburg, Haverhill, Newburyport, Lowell, and Plymouth. This overlaps with the service areas of neighboring regional transportation authorities. As of the summer of 2013 the Cape Cod Regional Transit Authority in collaboration with the MBTA and the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) is operating the CapeFLYER providing passenger rail service between Boston and Cape Cod.  
      Ferry 
      Ferry services are operated throughout different regions of the states. 
      Most ports north of Cape Cod are served by Boston Harbor Cruises, which operates ferry services in and around Greater Boston under contract with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. Several routes connect the downtown area with Hingham, Hull, Winthrop, Salem, Logan Airport, Charlestown, and some of the islands located within the harbor. The same company also operates seasonal service between Boston and Provincetown. 
      On the southern shore of the state, several different passenger ferry lines connect Martha's Vineyard to ports along the mainland, including Woods Hole, Hyannis, New Bedford, and Falmouth, all in Massachusetts, as well as North Kingstown in Rhode Island, Highlands in New Jersey, and New York City in New York. Similarly, several different lines connect Nantucket to ports including Hyannis, New Bedford, Harwich, and New York City. Service between the two islands is also offered. The dominant companies serving these routes include SeaStreak, Hy-Line Cruises, and The Steamship Authority, the latter of which regulates all passenger services in the region and is also the only company permitted to offer freight ferry services to the islands. 
      Other ferry connections in the state include a line between Fall River and Block Island via Newport, seasonal ferry service connecting Plymouth to Provincetown, and a service between New Bedford and Cuttyhunk.  
      Rail freight 
      As of 2018, a number of freight railroads were operating in Massachusetts, with Class I railroad CSX being the largest carrier, and another Class 1, Norfolk Southern serving the state via its Pan Am Southern joint partnership. Several regional and short line railroads also provide service and connect with other railroads. Massachusetts has a total of 1,110 miles (1,790&nbsp;km) of freight trackage in operation.  
      Air service 
      
      
       Further information: List of airports in Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Logan International Airport in Boston is the largest airport in New England in terms of passenger volume
        
       
       
      Boston Logan International Airport served 33.5&nbsp;million passengers in 2015 (up from 31.6&nbsp;million in 2014) through 103 gates. Logan, Hanscom Field in Bedford, and Worcester Regional Airport are operated by Massport, an independent state transportation agency. Massachusetts has 39 public-use airfields and more than 200 private landing spots. Some airports receive funding from the Aeronautics Division of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration; the FAA is also the primary regulator of Massachusetts air travel.  
      Roads 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Prominent roads and cities in Massachusetts
        
       
       
      There are a total of 36,800 miles (59,200&nbsp;km) of interstates and other highways in Massachusetts. Interstate&nbsp;90 (I-90, also known as the Massachusetts Turnpike), is the longest interstate in Massachusetts. The route travels 136&nbsp;mi (219&nbsp;km) generally west to east, entering Massachusetts at the New York state line in the town of West Stockbridge, and passes just north of Springfield, just south of Worcester and through Framingham before terminating near Logan International Airport in Boston. Other major interstates include I-91, which travels generally north and south along the Connecticut River; I-93, which travels north and south through central Boston, then passes through Methuen before entering New Hampshire; and I-95, which connects Providence, Rhode Island with Greater Boston, forming a partial loop concurrent with Route&nbsp;128 around the more urbanized areas before continuing north along the coast into New Hampshire. 
      I-495 forms a wide loop around the outer edge of Greater Boston. Other major interstates in Massachusetts include I-291, I-391, I-84, I-195, I-395, I-290, and I-190. Major non-interstate highways in Massachusetts include U.S. Routes 1, 3, 6, and 20, and state routes 2, 3, 9, 24, and 128. A great majority of interstates in Massachusetts were constructed during the mid-20th century, and at times were controversial, particularly the intent to route I-95 northeastwards from Providence, Rhode Island, directly through central Boston, first proposed in 1948. Opposition to continued construction grew, and in 1970 Governor Francis W. Sargent issued a general prohibition on most further freeway construction within the I-95/Route 128 loop in the Boston area. A massive undertaking to bring I-93 underground in downtown Boston, called the Big Dig, brought the city's highway system under public scrutiny for its high cost and construction quality.  
      Government and politics 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Massachusetts State House, topped by its golden dome, faces Boston Common on Beacon Hill.
        
       
       
      Massachusetts has a long political history; earlier political structures included the Mayflower Compact of 1620, the separate Massachusetts Bay and Plymouth colonies, and the combined colonial Province of Massachusetts. The Massachusetts Constitution was ratified in 1780 while the Revolutionary War was in progress, four years after the Articles of Confederation was drafted, and eight years before the present United States Constitution was ratified on June 21, 1788. Drafted by John Adams, the Massachusetts Constitution is currently the oldest functioning written constitution in continuous effect in the world. It has been amended 120 times, most recently in 2000. 
      Massachusetts politics since the second half of the 20th century have generally been dominated by the Democratic Party, and the state has a reputation for being the most liberal state in the country. In 1974, Elaine Noble became the first openly lesbian or gay candidate elected to a state legislature in US history. The state's 12th congressional district elected the first openly gay member of the United States House of Representatives, Gerry Studds, in 1972 and in 2004, Massachusetts became the first state to allow same-sex marriage. In 2006, Massachusetts became the first state to approve a law that provided for nearly universal healthcare. Massachusetts has a pro-sanctuary city law. 
      In a 2020 study, Massachusetts was ranked as the 11th easiest state for citizens to vote in.  
      Government 
      
      
       Main article: Government of Massachusetts
       
      
      
       See also: Commonwealth (U.S. state)
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Charlie Baker (R), the 72nd Governor of Massachusetts
        
       
       
      The Government of Massachusetts is divided into three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. The governor of Massachusetts heads the executive branch; duties of the governor include signing or vetoing legislation, filling judicial and agency appointments, granting pardons, preparing an annual budget, and commanding the Massachusetts National Guard. Massachusetts governors, unlike those of most other states, are addressed as His/Her Excellency. The current governor is Charlie Baker, a Republican from Swampscott. The executive branch also includes the Executive Council, which is made up of eight elected councilors and the Lieutenant Governor seat, currently occupied by Karyn Polito, a Republican from Shrewsbury. 
      Abilities of the Council include confirming gubernatorial appointments and certifying elections. The Massachusetts House of Representatives and Massachusetts Senate comprise the legislature of Massachusetts, known as the Massachusetts General Court. The House consists of 160 members while the Senate has 40 members. Leaders of the House and Senate are chosen by the members of those bodies; the leader of the House is known as the Speaker while the leader of the Senate is known as the President. Each branch consists of several committees. Members of both bodies are elected to two-year terms. 
      The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court (a chief justice and six associates) are appointed by the governor and confirmed by the executive council, as are all other judges in the state. 
      The Congressional delegation from Massachusetts is entirely Democratic. Currently, the Senators are Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey while the Representatives are Richard Neal (1st), Jim McGovern (2nd), Lori Trahan (3rd), Jake Auchincloss (4th), Katherine Clark (5th), Seth Moulton (6th), Ayanna Pressley (7th), Stephen Lynch (8th), and Bill Keating (9th). 
      Federal court cases are heard in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and appeals are heard by the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. In U.S. presidential elections since 2012, Massachusetts has been allotted 11 votes in the electoral college, out of a total of 538. Like most states, Massachusetts's electoral votes are granted in a winner-take-all system.  
      Politics 
      
      
       Main articles: Politics of Massachusetts and Political party strength in Massachusetts
       
      
      
       See also: United States presidential elections in Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boston Pride Parade, 2012. From left: Representative Joe Kennedy&nbsp;III, Senator Elizabeth Warren, and former representative Barney Frank.
        
       
       
      Massachusetts has shifted from a previously Republican-leaning state to one largely dominated by Democrats; the 1952 victory of John F. Kennedy over incumbent Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. is seen as a watershed moment in this transformation. His younger brother Edward M. Kennedy held that seat until his death from a brain tumor in 2009. Since the 1950s, Massachusetts has gained a reputation as being a politically liberal state and is often used as an archetype of modern liberalism, hence the phrase "Massachusetts liberal". 
      Massachusetts is one of the most Democratic states in the country. Democratic core concentrations are everywhere, except for a handful of Republican leaning towns in the Central and Southern parts of the state. Until recently, Republicans were dominant in the Western and Northern suburbs of Boston, however both areas heavily swung Democratic in the Trump era. The state as a whole has not given its Electoral College votes to a Republican in a presidential election since Ronald Reagan carried it in 1984. Additionally, Massachusetts provided Reagan with his smallest margins of victory in both the 1980 and 1984 elections. Massachusetts had been the only state to vote for Democrat George McGovern in the 1972 Presidential Election. In 2020, Biden received 65.6% of the vote, the best performance in over 50 years for a Democrat. 
      Democrats have an absolute grip on the Massachusetts congressional delegation; there are no Republicans elected to serve at the federal level. Both Senators and all nine Representatives are Democrats; only one Republican (former Senator Scott Brown) has been elected to either house of Congress from Massachusetts since 1994. Massachusetts is the most populous state to be represented in the United States Congress entirely by a single party.  
       
       
         
         Party registration as of February 2021 
         
         
         Party  
         Total voters  
         Percentage 
         
         
           
         Unenrolled  
         2,717,293  
         57.42% 
         
         
           
         Democratic  
         1,494,980  
         31.59% 
         
         
           
         Republican  
         459,663  
         9.71% 
         
         
           
         Other  
         60,004  
         1.27% 
         
         
         Total  
         4,731,940  
         100% 
        
       
       
      As of the 2018 elections, the Democratic Party holds a super-majority over the Republican Party in both chambers of the Massachusetts General Court (state legislature). Out of the state house's 160 seats, Democrats hold 127 seats (79%) compared to the Republican Party's 32 seats (20%), an independent sits in the remaining one, and 37 out of the 40 seats in the state senate (92.5%) belong to the Democratic Party compared to the Republican Party's three seats (7.5%). Both houses of the legislature have had Democratic majorities since the 1950s. 
      Despite the state's Democratic-leaning tendency, Massachusetts has generally elected Republicans as Governor: only one Democrat (Deval Patrick) has served as governor since 1991, and among gubernatorial election results from 2002 to 2018, Republican nominees garnered 48.4% of the vote compared to 45.7% for Democratic nominees. These have been considered to be among the most moderate Republican leaders in the nation; they have received higher net favorability ratings from the state's Democrats than Republicans. 
      A number of contemporary national political issues have been influenced by events in Massachusetts, such as the decision in 2003 by the state Supreme Judicial Court allowing same-sex marriage and a 2006 bill which mandated health insurance for all Bay Staters. In 2008, Massachusetts voters passed an initiative decriminalizing possession of small amounts of marijuana. Voters in Massachusetts also approved a ballot measure in 2012 that legalized the medical use of marijuana. Following the approval of a ballot question endorsing legalization in 2016, Massachusetts began issuing licenses for the regulated sale of recreational marijuana in June 2018. The licensed sale of recreational marijuana became legal on July 1, 2018; however, the lack of state-approved testing facilities prevented the sale of any product for several weeks. However, in 2020, a ballot initiative to implement Ranked-Choice Voting failed, despite being championed by many progressives. 
      Massachusetts is one of the most pro-choice states in the Union. A 2014 Pew Research Center poll found that 74% of Massachusetts residents supported the right to an abortion in all/most cases, making Massachusetts the most pro-choice state in the United States. 
      In 2020, the state legislature overrode Governor Charlie Baker's veto of the ROE Act, a controversial law that codified existing abortion laws in case the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, dropped the age of parental consent for those seeking an abortion from 18 to 16, and legalized abortion after 24 weeks, if a fetus had fatal anomalies, or "to preserve the patient's physical or mental health."  
      Cities, towns, and counties 
      
      
       Main article: Government of Massachusetts § Local Government
       
      There are 50 cities and 301 towns in Massachusetts, grouped into 14 counties. The fourteen counties, moving roughly from west to east, are Berkshire, Franklin, Hampshire, Hampden, Worcester, Middlesex, Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk, Bristol, Plymouth, Barnstable, Dukes, and Nantucket. Eleven communities which call themselves "towns" are, by law, cities since they have traded the town meeting form of government for a mayor-council or manager-council form. 
      Boston is the state capital in Massachusetts. The population of the city proper is 692,600, and Greater Boston, with a population of 4,873,019, is the 11th largest metropolitan area in the nation. Other cities with a population over 100,000 include Worcester, Springfield, Lowell, and Cambridge. Plymouth is the largest municipality in the state by land area, followed by Middleborough. 
      Massachusetts, along with the five other New England states, features the local governmental structure known as the New England town. In this structure, incorporated towns—as opposed to townships or counties—hold many of the responsibilities and powers of local government. Most of the county governments were abolished by the state of Massachusetts beginning in 1997 including Middlesex County, the largest county in the state by population. The voters of these now-defunct counties elect only Sheriffs and Registers of Deeds, who are part of the state government. Other counties have been reorganized, and a few still retain county councils.  
       
        
        
          
          
           
            &nbsp;
           
           
            &nbsp;
            
           
            Largest cities or towns in Massachusetts
            
            
             Source:
            
            
          
          
           
          Rank  
          Name  
          County  
          Pop.  
           
          
          
          BostonWorcester  
          1 
          Boston 
          Suffolk 
          692,600  
          SpringfieldCambridge 
          
          
          2 
          Worcester 
          Worcester 
          185,428 
          
          
          3 
          Springfield 
          Hampden 
          155,929 
          
          
          4 
          Cambridge 
          Middlesex 
          118,927 
          
          
          5 
          Lowell 
          Middlesex 
          110,997 
          
          
          6 
          Brockton 
          Plymouth 
          95,708 
          
          
          7 
          New Bedford 
          Bristol 
          95,363 
          
          
          8 
          Quincy 
          Norfolk 
          94,470 
          
          
          9 
          Lynn 
          Essex 
          94,299 
          
          
          10 
          Fall River 
          Bristol 
          89,541 
          
        
       
       
      Arts, culture, and recreation 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The site of Henry David Thoreau's cabin at Walden Pond in Concord
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Massachusetts has the largest population of the New England states. New Englander culture and identity remains strong in Massachusetts (Flag of New England pictured above).
        
       
       
      Massachusetts has contributed to American arts and culture. Drawing from its Native American and Yankee roots, along with later immigrant groups, Massachusetts has produced several writers, artists, and musicians. Some major museums and important historical sites are also located there, and events and festivals throughout the year celebrate the state's history and heritage. 
      Massachusetts was an early center of the Transcendentalist movement, which emphasized intuition, emotion, human individuality and a deeper connection with nature. Ralph Waldo Emerson, who was born in Boston but spent much of his later life in Concord, largely created the philosophy with his 1836 work Nature, and continued to be a key figure in the movement for the remainder of his life. Emerson's friend, Henry David Thoreau, who was also involved in Transcendentalism, recorded his year spent alone in a small cabin at nearby Walden Pond in the 1854 work Walden; or, Life in the Woods. 
      Other famous authors and poets born or strongly associated with Massachusetts include Anne Bradstreet, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Louisa May Alcott, Robert Frost, Emily Dickinson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Edith Wharton, e.e. cummings, Herman Melville, W.E.B. Du Bois, Sylvia Plath, Elizabeth Bishop, John Updike, Anne Sexton, H.P. Lovecraft, Edgar Allan Poe, Helen Hunt Jackson, Khalil Gibran, Mary Higgins Clark, Amelia Atwater-Rhodes, Jack Kerouac and Theodor Seuss Geisel, better known as "Dr. Seuss". Famous painters from Massachusetts include Winslow Homer and Norman Rockwell; many of the latter's works are on display at the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An outdoor dance performance at Jacob's Pillow in Becket
        
       
       
      Massachusetts is also an important center for the performing arts. Both the Boston Symphony Orchestra and Boston Pops Orchestra are based in Massachusetts. Other orchestras in Massachusetts include the Cape Cod Symphony Orchestra in Barnstable, the New Bedford Symphony Orchestra, and the Springfield Symphony Orchestra. Tanglewood, in western Massachusetts, is a music venue that is home to both the Tanglewood Music Festival and Tanglewood Jazz Festival, as well as the summer host for the Boston Symphony Orchestra. 
      Other performing arts and theater organizations in Massachusetts include the Boston Ballet, the Boston Lyric Opera, and the Lenox-based Shakespeare &amp; Company. In addition to classical and folk music, Massachusetts has produced musicians and bands spanning a number of contemporary genres, such as the classic rock band Aerosmith, the proto-punk band The Modern Lovers, the new wave band The Cars, and the alternative rock band Pixies. The state has also been the birthplace of the Nu Metal and Heavy Metal bands Staind and Godsmack, since they both formed in 1995, in Springfield and in Lawrence respectively. Film events in the state include the Boston Film Festival, the Boston International Film Festival, and a number of smaller film festivals in various cities throughout Massachusetts.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         USS Constitution fires a salute during its annual Fourth of July turnaround cruise
        
       
       
      Massachusetts is home to a large number of museums and historical sites. The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, and the DeCordova contemporary art and sculpture museum in Lincoln are all located within Massachusetts, and the Maria Mitchell Association in Nantucket includes several observatories, museums, and an aquarium. Historically themed museums and sites such as the Springfield Armory National Historic Site in Springfield, Boston's Freedom Trail and nearby Minute Man National Historical Park, both of which preserve a number of sites important during the American Revolution, the Lowell National Historical Park, which focuses on some of the earliest mills and canals of the industrial revolution in the US, the Black Heritage Trail in Boston, which includes important African-American and abolitionist sites in Boston, and the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park all showcase various periods of Massachusetts's history. 
      Plimoth Plantation and Old Sturbridge Village are two open-air or "living" museums in Massachusetts, recreating life as it was in the 17th and early 19th centuries, respectively. 
      Boston's annual St. Patrick's Day parade and "Harborfest", a week-long Fourth of July celebration featuring a fireworks display and concert by the Boston Pops as well as a turnaround cruise in Boston Harbor by the USS Constitution, are popular events. The New England Summer Nationals, an auto show in Worcester, draws tens of thousands of attendees every year. The Boston Marathon is also a popular event in the state drawing more than 30,000 runners and tens of thousands of spectators annually. 
      Long-distance hiking trails in Massachusetts include the Appalachian Trail, the New England National Scenic Trail, the Metacomet-Monadnock Trail, the Midstate Trail, and the Bay Circuit Trail. Other outdoor recreational activities in Massachusetts include sailing and yachting, freshwater and deep-sea fishing, whale watching, downhill and cross-country skiing, and hunting. 
      Massachusetts is one of the states with the largest percentage of Catholics. It has many sanctuaries such as the National Shrine of The Divine Mercy (Stockbridge, Massachusetts).  
      Media 
      
      
       See also: List of television stations in Massachusetts, List of newspapers in Massachusetts, and List of radio stations in Massachusetts
       
      There are two major television media markets located in Massachusetts. The Boston/Manchester market is the fifth-largest in the United States. The other market surrounds the Springfield area. WGBH-TV in Boston is a major public television station and produces national programs such as Nova, Frontline, and American Experience. 
      The Boston Globe, Boston Herald, Springfield Republican, and the Worcester Telegram &amp; Gazette are Massachusetts's largest daily newspapers. In addition, there are many community dailies and weeklies. The Associated Press maintains a bureau in Boston, and local news wire the State House News Service feeds coverage of state government to other Massachusetts media outlets. There are a number of major AM and FM stations which serve Massachusetts, along with many more regional and community-based stations. Some colleges and universities also operate campus television and radio stations, and print their own newspapers.  
      Health 
      
      
       See also: List of hospitals in Massachusetts, Massachusetts health care reform, and Governorship of Mitt Romney §&nbsp;Health care
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Map showing the average medicare reimbursement per enrollee for the counties in Massachusetts.
        
       
       
      Massachusetts generally ranks highly among states in most health and disease prevention categories. In 2015, the United Health Foundation ranked the state as third-healthiest overall. Massachusetts has the most doctors per 100,000 residents, the second-lowest infant mortality rate, and the lowest percentage of uninsured residents (children as well as the total population). According to Businessweek, commonwealth residents have an average life expectancy of 80.41 years, the fifth-longest in the country. 37.2% of the population is overweight and 21.7% is obese, and Massachusetts ranks sixth-highest in the percentage of residents who are considered neither obese nor overweight (41.1%). Massachusetts also ranks above average in the prevalence of binge drinking, which is the 20th-highest in the country. 
      The nation's first Marine Hospital was erected by federal order in Boston in 1799. There are currently a total of 143 hospitals in the state. According to 2015 rankings by U.S. News &amp; World Report, Massachusetts General Hospital is ranked in the top three in two health care specialties. Massachusetts General was founded in 1811 and serves as the largest teaching hospital for nearby Harvard University. 
      The state of Massachusetts is a center for medical education and research including Harvard's Brigham and Women's Hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute as well as the New England Baptist Hospital, Tufts Medical Center, and Boston Medical Center which is the primary teaching hospital for Boston University. The University of Massachusetts Medical School is located in Worcester. The Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences has two of its three campuses in Boston and Worcester.  
      Sports 
      
      
       Main article: Sports in Massachusetts
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Gillette Stadium in Foxborough is the home venue for the New England Patriots (NFL) and the New England Revolution (MLS)
        
       
       
      Massachusetts is home to five major league professional sports teams: seventeen-time NBA Champions Boston Celtics, nine-time World Series winners Boston Red Sox, six-time Stanley Cup winners Boston Bruins, six-time Super Bowl winners New England Patriots, and Major League Soccer team New England Revolution. 
      In the late 19th century, the Olympic sports of basketball and volleyball were invented in the Western Massachusetts cities of Springfield and Holyoke, respectively. The Basketball Hall of Fame is a major tourist destination in the City of Springfield and the Volleyball Hall of Fame is located in Holyoke. The American Hockey League (AHL), the NHL's development league, is headquartered in Springfield. 
      Several universities in Massachusetts are notable for their collegiate athletics. The state is home to two Division&nbsp;I FBS teams, Boston College of the Atlantic Coast Conference, and FBS Independent University of Massachusetts at Amherst. FCS play includes Harvard University, which competes in the famed Ivy League, and College of the Holy Cross of the Patriot League. Boston University, Northeastern University, UMASS Lowell, and Merrimack College also participate in Division&nbsp;I athletics. Many other Massachusetts colleges compete in lower divisions such as Division&nbsp;III, where MIT, Tufts University, Amherst College, Williams College, and others field competitive teams. 
      Massachusetts is also the home of rowing events such as the Eastern Sprints on Lake Quinsigamond and the Head of the Charles Regatta. A number of major golf events have taken place in Massachusetts, including nine U.S. Opens and two Ryder Cups. Massachusetts is also the home of the Cape Cod Baseball League, and Premier Lacrosse League team Cannons Lacrosse Club. 
      Massachusetts has produced several successful Olympians including Thomas Burke, James Connolly, and John Thomas (track &amp; field); Butch Johnson (archery); Nancy Kerrigan (figure skating); Todd Richards (snowboarding); Albina Osipowich (swimming); Aly Raisman (gymnastics); Patrick Ewing (basketball); as well as Jim Craig, Mike Eruzione, Bill Cleary, and Keith Tkachuk (ice hockey).  
      See also 
      
       Index of Massachusetts-related articles 
       Outline of Massachusetts 
       &nbsp;Massachusetts portal
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Massachusetts is one of only four U.S. states to use the term "Commonwealth" in its official name, along with Kentucky, Virginia, and Pennsylvania  
         ^ Persons of Hispanic or Latino origin are not distinguished between total and partial ancestry  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Herman, Jennifer (2008). Massachusetts Encyclopedia. State History Publications, LLC. p.&nbsp;7. Various nicknames have been given to describe Massachusetts, including the Bay State, the Old Bay State, the Pilgrim State, the Puritan State, the Old Colony State and, less often, the Baked Bean State  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on August 21, 2015. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Greylock RM 1 Reset". NGS data sheet. U.S. National Geodetic Survey.  
         ^ Elevation adjusted to North American Vertical Datum of 1988.  
         ^ 
           "Median Annual Household Income". The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Retrieved December 9, 2016.  
         ^ a b 
           "2020 Census Apportionment Results". census.gov. United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on April 26, 2021. Retrieved April 30, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 2, Section 35: Designation of citizens of commonwealth". The General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved July 21, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Collections". Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society. 1877. p.&nbsp;435. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Jones, Thomas (1879). DeLancey, Edward Floyd (ed.). History of New York During the Revolutionary War. New York: New-York Historical Society. p.&nbsp;465. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           U.S. Government Publishing Office Style Manual. 2016. §5.23.  
         ^ 
           Nagy, Naomi; Irwin, Patricia (July 2010). "Boston (r): Neighbo(r)s nea(r) and fa(r)". Language Variation and Change. 22 (2): 270. doi:10.1017/S0954394510000062. S2CID&nbsp;147556528.  
         ^ 
           "'Masshole' among newest words added to Oxford English Dictionary". masslive.com. June 25, 2015. Retrieved October 27, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Schwarz, Hunter (August 12, 2014). "States where English is the official language". The Washington Post. Retrieved December 29, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Language spoken at home by ability to speak English for the population 5 years and over—2014 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates". American FactFinder. Archived from the original on February 13, 2020. Retrieved February 6, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Black-Capped Chickadee:Massachusetts State Bird". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 17, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Wild Turkey:Massachusetts State Game Bird". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 17, 2015.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q 
           "Massachusetts Facts". Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Cod: Massachusetts State Fish". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Mayflower: Massachusetts State Flower". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Ladybug: Massachusetts State Insect". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Right Whale: Massachusetts State Marine Mammal". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Morgan Horse: Massachusetts State Horse". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Tabby Cat: Massachusetts State Cat". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Boston Terrier: Massachusetts State Dog". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Garter Snake: Massachusetts State Reptile". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "American Elm: Massachusetts State Tree". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Cranberry Juice: Massachusetts State Beverage". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Blue—Green—Cranberry: Massachusetts State Colors". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Square Dance: Massachusetts State Folk Dance". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Cranberry: Massachusetts State Berry". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Corn Muffin: Massachusetts State Muffin". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Baked Navy Bean: Massachusetts State Bean". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Boston Creme Pie: Massachusetts State Dessert". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Chocolate Chip Cookie: Massachusetts State Cookie". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Boston Cream Donut: Massachusetts State Donut". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 18, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Dinosaur Tracks: Massachusetts State Fossil". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Rhodonite: Massachusetts State Gem". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Babingtonite: Massachusetts State Mineral". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Blue Hills of Massachusetts: Massachusetts State Poem". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Official State Rock of Massachusetts". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved November 28, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "State Slogans". Ereferencedesk.com. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Levenson, Michael (August 9, 2006). "Can you guess the state sport of Massachusetts?". The Boston Globe. Retrieved February 14, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "New England Neptune: Massachusetts State Shell". StateSymbolsUSA.org. Retrieved April 23, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The Official Massachusetts State Quarter". theus50.com. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           Douglas, Craig. "Greater Boston gains population, remains 10th-largest region in U.S". bizjournals.com. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Maritime Commerce". National Park Service. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "History of Lowell, Massachusetts". City of Lowell. Archived from the original on April 5, 2010. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Staying Power: The Future of Manufacturing in Massachusetts" (PDF). The Center for Urban and Regional Policy School of Social Science, Urban Affairs, and Public Policy Northeastern University. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Housing and Economic Development:Key Industries". mass.gov. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The 1692 Salem Witch Trials". Salem Witch Trials Museum. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Springfield Armory: Technology in Transition" (PDF). National Park Service United States Department of the Interior. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b c 
           "Shays' Rebellion". ushistory.org. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The First Great Awakening—Jonathan Edwards". revival-library.org. Archived from the original on April 22, 2015. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Faneuil Hall". Celebrateboston.com. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The Temperance Issue in the Election of 1840: Massachusetts". Teachushistory.org. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Packer, Barbara (2007). The Transcendentalists. University of Georgia Press; First edition (April 25, 2007). ISBN&nbsp;978-0820329581.  
         ^ 
           "Images of the Antislavery Movement in Massachusetts". Masshist.org. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b c 
           "Springfield College: The Birthplace of Basketball". Springfieldcollege.edu. Archived from the original on May 4, 2015. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b c d 
           "The International Volleyball Hall of Fame". Volleyball.org. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b c 
           "Massachusetts court strikes down ban on same-sex marriage". Reuters. November 18, 2003. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "History of Harvard University". Harvard University. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Tamar Lewin (January 28, 2015). "Harvard's Endowment Remains Biggest of All". The New York Times. Retrieved March 6, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Richard Wolf (March 16, 2016). "Meet Merrick Garland, Obama's Supreme Court nominee". USA Today. Retrieved March 16, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Kendall Square Initiative". MIT. Retrieved December 1, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Lelund Cheung. "When a neighborhood is crowned the most innovative square mile in the world, how do you keep it that way?". The Boston Globe. Archived from the original on December 2, 2016. Retrieved December 3, 2016.  
         ^ a b  Times Higher Education. Accessed December 3, 2016.  
         ^ [
           "Average IQ by State". World Popultaion Review. Retrieved October 1, 2021. The highest-ranking state in terms of average IQ is Massachusetts, with an average IQ score of 104.3  
         ^ a b 
           "Massachusetts Students Score among World Leaders on PISA Reading, Science and Math Tests". Archived from the original on December 4, 2019. Retrieved January 14, 2020.  
         ^ a b  
           "Best States Overall Ranking". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Retrieved December 29, 2017.  
         ^ 
           Fermino, Jessie Little Doe (2000). Introduction to Wampanoag Grammar (Thesis). Massachusetts Institute of Technology. hdl:1721.1/8740.  
         ^ 
           Tooker, William Wallace (1904). Algonquian Names of some Mountains and Hills. American Folk-lore Society. p.&nbsp;175. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ Salwen, Bert, 1978. Indians of Southern New England and Long Island: Early Period. In "Northeast", ed. Bruce G. Trigger. Vol. 15 of "Handbook of North American Indians", ed. William C. Sturtevant, pp. 160–76. Washington DC: Smithsonian Institution. Quoted in: Campbell, Lyle. 1997. American Indian Languages: The Historical Linguistics of Native America. Oxford: Oxford University Press, p. 401  
         ^ Bright, William (2004). Native American Place Names of the United States. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, p. 270  
         ^ 
           "East Squantum Street (Moswetuset Hummock)". Quincy, Mass. Historical and Architectural Survey. Thomas Crane Public Library. 1986. Retrieved June 24, 2009.  
         ^ 
           Neal, Daniel (1747). "XIV: The Present State of New England". The history of New-England. Vol.&nbsp;2 (2&nbsp;ed.). London: A. Ward. p.&nbsp;216. OCLC&nbsp;8616817. Retrieved June 24, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Part One: Concise Facts—Name". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Why is Massachusetts a Commonwealth?". Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved April 21, 2015. The term 'Commonwealth' does not describe or provide for any specific political status or legal relationship when used by a state. Those  that do use it are equal to those that do not. Legally, Massachusetts is a commonwealth because the term is contained in the Constitution.  
         ^ 
           "Kentucky as a Commonwealth". Kentucky Department for Libraries and Archives. Archived from the original on January 31, 2011. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^  
           Finucane, Martin. "Why do we call Massachusetts a 'commonwealth'? Blame John Adams". The Boston Globe. A previous draft of the state constitution, proposed by the Legislature and rejected, had used the name 'State of Massachusetts Bay'.At the time, the word was used to mean 'republic', and there might have been some antimonarchical sentiment in using it, according to the Massachusetts secretary of state's website. }: External link in |quote= (help)  
         ^ a b Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;6–7.  
         ^ a b 
           "Origin &amp; Early Mohican History". Stockbridge-Munsee Community—Band of Mohican Indians. Archived from the original on September 12, 2009. Retrieved October 21, 2009.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;7.  
         ^ 
           Hoxie, Frederick E (1996). Encyclopedia of North American Indians. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. p.&nbsp;164. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-395-66921-1. OCLC&nbsp;34669430. Retrieved July 30, 2009.  
         ^ 
           Marr, JS; Cathey, JT (February 2010). "New hypothesis for cause of an epidemic among Native Americans, New England, 1616–1619". Emerging Infectious Diseases. 16 (2): 281–286. doi:10.3201/e0di1602.090276. PMC&nbsp;2957993. PMID&nbsp;20113559.  
         ^ 
           Kaplow, David (2003). Smallpox: The Fight to Eradicate a Global Scourge. University of California Press. p.&nbsp;13. ISBN&nbsp;978-0520242203.  
         ^ 
           "THE PILGRIMS". History.com. Retrieved April 21, 2015.  
         ^ a b Goldfield et al. 1998, pp.&nbsp;29–30.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, p.&nbsp;30.  
         ^ a b 
           "The New England Colonies". ushistory.org. Retrieved April 24, 2015.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, p.&nbsp;29.  
         ^ 
           "Charter Of Massachusetts Bay 1629". let.rug.nl. Retrieved April 24, 2015.  
         ^ Michael Mullett: "Curwen, Thomas (c. 1610–1680)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford, UK: OUP, 2004) Retrieved 17 November 2015  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;30–32.  
         ^ 
           Barrows, Charles Henry (1911). The History of Springfield in Massachusetts for the Young: Being Also in Some Part the History of Other Towns and Cities in the County of Hampden. The Connecticut Valley Historical Society. pp.&nbsp;46–48. US 13459.5.7.  
         ^ William Pynchon Archived September 21, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. Bio.umass.edu. Retrieved September 7, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Connecticut's "Southwick Jog"". Connecticut State Library. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Brooks, Rebecca Beatrice (January 14, 2020). "Why Was the Massachusetts Bay Colony Charter Revoked?". History of Massachusetts Blog. Retrieved December 8, 2020.  
         ^ a b Goldfield et al. 1998, p.&nbsp;66.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;50.  
         ^ 
           Perley, Sidney (April 18, 2014). "Historic Earthquakes". Earthquake Hazards Program. USGS. Archived from the original on November 10, 2011. Retrieved February 7, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Memorandum". Boston Gazette. November 24, 1755. p.&nbsp;1.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;63–83.  
         ^ 
           "The Intolerable Acts". ushistory.org. Retrieved April 24, 2015.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, pp.&nbsp;88–90.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, pp.&nbsp;95–96.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, pp.&nbsp;96–97.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Legal Holidays". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "John Fraylor. Salem Maritime National Historic Park". National Park Service. Retrieved September 3, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "The Declaration of Independence". PBS. Retrieved April 25, 2015.  
         ^ 
           McCullough, David (September 3, 2002). John Adams (1st&nbsp;ed.). Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN&nbsp;978-0743223133.  
         ^ 
           "Pennsylvania's Gradual Abolition Act of 1780". Explore PA history. Archived from the original on October 4, 2013.  
         ^ 
           Rettig, Polly M. (April 3, 1978). "John Quincy Adams Birthplace". National Register of Historic Places Inventory-Nomination. National Park Service. Retrieved April 24, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The Ratification of the U.S. Constitution in Massachusetts". Massachusetts Historical Society. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "On this day in 1820". Massmoments.org. Retrieved April 25, 2015.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;129.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;211.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;202.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;133–36.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;179.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, p.&nbsp;251.  
         ^ a b c Goldfield et al. 1998, p.&nbsp;254.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;185.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;183.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;187–93.  
         ^ 
           "Robert Gould Shaw and the 54th Regiment". National Park Service. Retrieved October 19, 2009.  
         ^ a b 
           "State Compulsory School Attendance Laws". infoplease.com. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ Brown and Tager, p. 246.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;276.  
         ^ 
           "Job Loss, Shrinking Revenues, and Grinding Decline in Springfield, Massachusetts: Is A Finance Control Board the Answer?" (PDF). University of Massachusetts Lowell. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ Peck, Merton J. &amp; Scherer, Frederic M. The Weapons Acquisition Process: An Economic Analysis (1962) Harvard Business School p.111  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;275–83.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;284.  
         ^ a b c d Grunwald, Michael. Dig the Big Dig  The Washington Post. August 6, 2006. Retrieved May 31, 2010.  
         ^ a b 
           "The Central Artery/Tunnel Project—The Big Dig". Massachusetts Department of Transportation—Highway Division. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Biography: Edward Moore Kennedy". American Experience. Retrieved May 28, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "The Kennedys: A Family Tree". St. Petersburg Times. Retrieved May 28, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "BROOKE, Edward William, III". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Retrieved April 25, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "George H.W. Bush Biography". biography.com. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Blair, Russell. "Recreational Marijuana Passes In Massachusetts".  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Marijuana Legalization, Question 4 (2016)". Ballotpedia.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           "Massachusetts". National Park Service. Retrieved May 26, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Mission". Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved April 22, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Ricklefs, Robert (December 17, 2008). The Economy of Nature (6th&nbsp;ed.). W. H. Freeman. p.&nbsp;96. ISBN&nbsp;978-0716786979. Retrieved April 22, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Stocker, Carol (November 17, 2005). "Old growth, grand specimens drive big-tree hunters". The Boston Globe. Retrieved October 17, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Current Research—Working Landscapes". The Center for Rural Massachusetts—The University of Massachusetts Amherst. Archived from the original on February 26, 2009. Retrieved March 19, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Northeastern Coastal Zone—Ecoregion Description". United States Geological Survey. Retrieved October 17, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "MESA List Overview". Department of Energy and Environmental Affairs. Retrieved April 22, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Peregrine Falcon" (PDF). Commonwealth of Massachusetts Division of Fisheries &amp; Wildlife. Retrieved May 9, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Eastern Coyote". Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. Retrieved May 9, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Forests lure moose to Massachusetts". The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved April 22, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Atlantic Flyway". National Audubon Society. November 13, 2014. Retrieved May 9, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Chasing loons: Banding the elusive birds at night on the Quabbin Reservoir". masslive.com. July 28, 2014. Retrieved April 23, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Coastal Waterbird Program". Mass Audubon. Retrieved May 28, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "It was a record-breaking year for shark research off Cape Cod". boston.com. Retrieved March 30, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Sharks have multiplied off Cape Cod beaches, devouring gray seals and putting swimmers on edge". USA Today. Retrieved March 30, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Map: Where great white sharks roam off Cape Cod". capecodtimes.com. Retrieved March 30, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Commonly Caught Species". eregulations.com. The Massachusetts Division of Marine Fisheries. Retrieved May 9, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Caffrey, D. J.; Worthley, L. H. (1927). Details—A progress report on the investigations of the European corn borer—Biodiversity Heritage Library. doi:10.5962/bhl.title.108390.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts climate averages". Weatherbase. Retrieved November 20, 2015.  
         ^ 
           EPA. "What climate change means for Massachusetts" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Effects of Climate Change in Massachusetts". Mass Audubon. Retrieved April 23, 2020.  
         ^ a b 
           Dupigny-Giroux, L.A.; E.L. Mecray; M.D. Lemcke-Stampone; G.A. Hodgkins; E.E. Lentz; K.E. Mills; E.D. Lane; R. Miller; D.Y. Hollinger; W.D. Solecki; G.A. Wellenius; P.E. Sheffield; A.B. MacDonald; C. Caldwell (2018). "Northeast". In Reidmiller, D.R.; C.W. Avery; D.R. Easterling; K.E. Kunkel; K.L.M. Lewis; T.K. Maycock; B.C. Stewart (eds.). Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States: Fourth National Climate Assessment, Volume II (Report). Washington, DC, USA: U.S. Global Change Research Program. pp.&nbsp;669–742. doi:10.7930/NCA4.2018.CH18.  
         ^ a b c d 
           What Climate Change Means for Massachusetts (PDF file) (Report). United States Environmental Protection Agency. August 2016. Retrieved December 16, 2020.  
         ^ Kathleen A. Theoharides, et all. “Determination of Statewide Emissions Limit for 2050.” April 6, 2020. PDF file.  
         ^ Massachusetts Energy-Saving Rebates. www.masssave.com/rebates.  
         ^ MassSave: A New Model for Statewide Energy Efficiency Programs.” 2012, PDF file.  
         ^ Virtual Assessments. www.masssave.com/en/saving/energy-assessments/virtual-assessments.  
         ^ “830 CMR 62.6.1: Residential Energy Credit.” Mass.gov, www.mass.gov/regulations/830-CMR-6261-residential-energy-credit.  
         ^ Net Metering Guide. www.mass.gov/guides/net-metering-guide.  
         ^ “Municipal Light Plant Solar Rebate Program.” Mass.gov, www.mass.gov/guides/municipal-light-plant-solar-rebate-program.  
         ^ “Mass Solar Loan.” Mass CEC, www.masssolarloan.com/.  
         ^ EV Is a Massachusetts Program That Issues Rebates to Electric Vehicle Drivers. mor-ev.org/.  
         ^ “State and Federal Electric Vehicle Funding Programs.” Mass.gov, www.mass.gov/service-details/state-and-federal-electric-vehicle-funding-programs.  
         ^ “Income Eligible Programs.” Mass Save, www.masssave.com/saving/income-based-offers/income-eligible-programs.  
         ^ 
           Martin, Naomi (December 30, 2020). "Mass. to require all new cars sold to be electric by 2035 as part of climate-change measures". The Boston Globe.  
         ^ 
           "MA2050DecarbonizationRoadmap_FINAL.pdf | Mass.gov". www.mass.gov.  
         ^ 
           "Population: 1790 to 1990" (PDF). US: United States Census Bureau. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Historical Population Change Data (1910–2020)". Census.gov. United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on April 29, 2021. Retrieved May 1, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Population Surpasses 7 Million In 2020 Census". Retrieved April 27, 2021.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           "Table 1. Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2015". United States Census Bureau. December 23, 2015. Archived from the original (CSV) on December 23, 2015. Retrieved January 24, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Centers of Population". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "State Centers of Population". howderfamily.com. February 5, 2012. Retrieved April 26, 2015. I'll&nbsp;... examine some individual state centers of population.  
         ^ a b 
           Miller, Joshua. "Mass. population growth is tops in N.E". The Boston Globe. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           Mishra, Raja (December 22, 2006). "State's population growth on stagnant course". The Boston Globe. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ a b c 
           Bayles, Fred (March 21, 2001). "Minorities account for state population growth". USA Today. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Jane Walsh (November 25, 2015). "The most Irish town in America is named using US census data". IrishCentral. Retrieved May 8, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Race and Ethnicity in the United States: 2010 Census and 2020 Census". census.gov. United States Census Bureau. August 12, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts QuickFacts". US: United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on August 21, 2015. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Exner, Rich (June 3, 2012). "Americans under age 1 now mostly minorities, but not in Ohio: Statistical Snapshot". The Plain Dealer.  
         ^ 
           Exner, Rich (June 3, 2012). "Americans under age 1 now mostly minorities, but not in Ohio: Statistical Snapshot". cleveland.com. Advance Ohio. Retrieved August 2, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "CDC data" (PDF). www.cdc.gov. Retrieved May 13, 2020.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;173.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;173–79.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;203.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;301.  
         ^ 
           "SELECTED POPULATION PROFILE IN THE UNITED STATES 2014 American Community Survey 1-Year Estimates—Chinese alone, Massachusetts". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on February 14, 2020. Retrieved May 8, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "PEOPLE REPORTING ANCESTRY 2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". U.S. Census Bureau. Retrieved August 25, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts—Ethnic groups". City-Data.com. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ For Bristol County see 
           "DP02 SELECTED SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS IN THE UNITED STATES—2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on February 13, 2020. Retrieved January 12, 2016. 
           
            
             
              For Hampden County see 
               "DP02 Selected Social Characteristics in the United States—2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on February 13, 2020. Retrieved January 12, 2016. 
              For Worcester County see 
               "DP02 SELECTED SOCIAL CHARACTERISTICS IN THE UNITED STATES—2006–2010 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on February 13, 2020. Retrieved January 12, 2016.
             
            
             
         ^ 
           Schweitzer, Sarah (February 15, 2010). "Lowell hopes to put 'Little Cambodia' on the map". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 31, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "2011-2015 American Community Survey Selected Population Tables". Retrieved August 10, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Indian Reservations in the Continental United States". National Park Service. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;180–82.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;257–58.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, pp.&nbsp;300–4.  
         ^ 
           Irwin, Patricia; Nagy, Naomi. "Bostonians /r/ Speaking: A Quantitative Look at (R) in Boston". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "Massachusetts". Modern Language Association. Retrieved August 21, 2013.  
         ^ 
           Butterfield, Fox (May 14, 1989). "The Perfect New England Town". The New York Times. Retrieved May 30, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Michael Lipka and Benjamin Wormald (February 29, 2016). "How religious is your state?". Pew research center. Retrieved May 5, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Headquarters of the Unitarian Universalist Association". Unitarian Universalist Association. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The UUA to Sell its Beacon Hill Properties, Move to Innovation District". Unitarian Universalist Association. Archived from the original on April 17, 2015. Retrieved April 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The Association of Religion Data Archives | State Membership Report". Association of Religion Data Archives. Retrieved November 22, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Adults in Massachusetts". Pew Research Center's Religion &amp; Public Life Project. May 11, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "2015-16 SAT Performance Statewide Report". profiles.doe.mass.edu.  
         ^ 
           "The 10 Best U.S. States for Education—2. New Jersey". U.S. News &amp; World Report. February 27, 2018. Retrieved May 5, 2018.  
         ^ Dejnozka et al. 1982, p.&nbsp;313.  
         ^ Dejnozka et al. 1982, p.&nbsp;311.  
         ^ Goldfield et al. 1998, pp.&nbsp;251–52.  
         ^ 
           "Mather Elementary School". Boston Public Schools. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Ramírez, Eddy (November 29, 2007). "The First Class State". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Archived from the original on December 19, 2008. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "#26 The Governors Academy, Byfield, Mass". Business Insider. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Rimer, Sara; Finder, Alan (February 10, 2007). "Harvard Plans to Name First Female President". The New York Times. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Mount Holyoke Admissions Information". StudyPoint. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Dangremond, Sam (August 1, 2018). "These Are the Best Private High Schools in America, According to a New Ranking". Town and Country. Retrieved July 21, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Bidwell, Allie. "How States Are Spending Money in Education". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Archived from the original on May 5, 2015. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Are the nation's twelfth-graders making progress in mathematics and reading?". National Assessment of Educational Progress. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "A Practical Guide to Living in the State—Education". MA, US: Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved June 2, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "World's Best Universities:Top 400". U.S. News &amp; World Report. February 25, 2010. Retrieved May 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "National Liberal Arts Colleges Rankings". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Archived from the original on August 21, 2016. Retrieved May 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The UMass System". University of Massachusetts Amherst. Archived from the original on August 30, 2013. Retrieved May 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "UMass—Facts 2009–2010" (PDF). University of Massachusetts Amherst. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 20, 2011. Retrieved May 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Apps Test | U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)". Bea.gov. Retrieved July 31, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "State Personal Income 2008" (PDF). Bureau of Economic Analysis. Archived from the original (PDF) on April 12, 2010. Retrieved June 8, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts law about minimum wage". Commonwealth of Massachusetts. December 31, 2020. Retrieved January 11, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Map and List of Fortune 1000 Companies for 2018". November 13, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "America's Top States For Business". CNBC. June 24, 2014. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Here are the Most Innovative States in America in 2016". Bloomberg.com. December 22, 2016 – via www.bloomberg.com.  
         ^ 
           Frank, Robert (January 15, 2014). "Top states for millionaires per capita". CNBC. Retrieved January 25, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Here's a new list of the richest people in Mass. - The Boston Globe". BostonGlobe.com.  
         ^ 
           United States Department of Commerce . International Trade Administration . Enforcement and Compliance. "List of Foreign-Trade Zones by State". enforcement.trade.gov. Retrieved March 16, 2018.  
         ^ a b 
           "Monthly Airport Traffic Summary—December 2015" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on February 7, 2016. Retrieved February 6, 2016. Accessed May 8, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Venture Investment—Regional Aggregate Data". National Venture Capital Association. Archived from the original on April 8, 2016. Retrieved January 17, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Corlyn Voorhees (June 11, 2016). "Where do Massachusetts tourists come from?". The Boston Globe.  
         ^ 
           "Tourism Statistics". Statisticsbrain.com. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "1,000 places to visit in Massachusetts". Boston.com.  
         ^ 
           "State Profiles Data Sheet". National Association of Manufacturers. October 2017. Archived from the original on October 3, 2018.  
         ^ 
           Massachusetts Manufacturing Facts (Report). National Association of Manufacturers. Archived from the original on December 26, 2018. Retrieved December 28, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "MassMEDIC". Massachusetts Medical Device Industry Council. Retrieved December 28, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Number of Farms Numbers Continue Slight Rise in 2012". University of Massachusetts Amherst Center for Agriculture, Food, and the environment. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources". Massachusetts Department of Agricultural. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Cranberries" (PDF). United States Department of Agriculture. January 26, 2007. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Waltham nonprofit WATCH CDC recognized at Statehouse". Wicked Local Waltham. Retrieved June 21, 2017.  
         ^ 
           "2016's States with the Highest &amp; Lowest Tax Rates". Retrieved June 18, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "2016 State Business Tax Climate Index". Retrieved June 18, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Tom Keane (March 28, 2014). "'Taxachusetts' is a misnomer, at least for now". Boston Globe.  
         ^ 
           "Taxes &amp; Rates Income". Massachusetts Department of Revenue. Retrieved October 16, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Implements Reduction in Personal Income Tax Rates". The Tax Foundation. Archived from the original on January 20, 2012. Retrieved May 10, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Mass. tax rate takes slight dip - The Boston Globe". BostonGlobe.com.  
         ^ a b 
           "Massachusetts". The Tax Foundation. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "Tax Rates". Massachusetts Department of Revenue. Retrieved April 27, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "CLT Update: Apr 15, 2005, "We didn't need or want a tax cut—but it's ours now!"". cltg.org.  
         ^ a b c 
           "A Guide to Sales and Use Tax". MA, US: Massachusetts Department of Revenue. Retrieved June 18, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Electricity deregulation". Good Energy. June 2, 2020.  
         ^ a b c d 
           "State Profile and Energy Estimates". Energy Information Administration. Retrieved July 29, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "State Scorecard Rank". American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. Retrieved June 13, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "2015 State Scorecard Rank—Massachusetts" (PDF). American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 4, 2016. Retrieved June 26, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Wood, Elisa (May 26, 2015). "Boston Takes Top Spot Again in City Energy Efficiency Scorecard". Energy Efficiency Markets.com. Retrieved June 13, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Regional Planning Agencies". American Planning Association. Retrieved April 30, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "MassDEP Emissions Inventories". Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Retrieved February 11, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "MBTA Website". Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. Archived from the original on April 18, 2015. Retrieved May 2, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Subway Map". Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Bus Schedules &amp; Maps". Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Boat Map and Schedules". Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Your Transit Authorities". Massachusetts Association of Regional Transit Authorities. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Cape Cod Central Railroad". Cape Cod Central Railroad. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "2010 Scenic Train Schedule". Berkshire Scenic Railway Museum. Archived from the original on August 28, 2009. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ a b c 
           "Northeast Train Routes". Amtrak. Retrieved June 12, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Acela Express". Routes. Amtrak. Archived from the original on May 23, 2010. Retrieved May 22, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Nixon, Ron (August 15, 2012). "Air Travel's Hassles Drive Riders to Amtrak's Acela" – via www.nytimes.com.  
         ^ 
           "Commuter Rail Maps and Schedules". Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "CapeFlyer". Retrieved July 29, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "T announces summer Cape Cod train service". WCVB-TV. Archived from the original on November 3, 2013. Retrieved July 29, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Ferry Schedules and Maps". Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. Retrieved June 20, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "2020 Martha's Vineyard Ferry Schedules". Martha's Vineyard Ferries. Retrieved July 23, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "2020 Nantucket Ferry Schedules". Nantucket Ferries. Retrieved July 23, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Background". The Woods Hole, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket Steamship Authority. Retrieved May 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Fall River Hi-Speed Schedule". Block Island Ferry. Retrieved July 23, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Fast Ferry to Provincetown". Captain John Boats. Retrieved June 20, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "New Bedford to Cuttyhunk Ferry Service". Cuttyhunk Ferry Co. Retrieved July 23, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Passenger and Freight Rail". Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Retrieved May 2, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts State Rail Plan, May 2018".  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts State Fact Sheet: Rail Fast Facts For 2017" (PDF). Association of American Railroads. Retrieved February 12, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "About Logan". Massachusetts Port Authority. Retrieved May 2, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "About Massport". Massachusetts Port Authority. Archived from the original on July 7, 2017. Retrieved May 2, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Public Use Airports Locations | Mass.gov". www.mass.gov.  
         ^ 
           "Mass Aeronautics". Archived from the original on May 5, 2008.  
         ^ 
           "About FAA". Federal Aviation Administration. Retrieved May 2, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "2018 Massachusetts Road Inventory Year End Report" (PDF). Massachusetts Department of Transportation. Retrieved October 6, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Interstate 90". interstate-guide.com. AARoads. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ Brown and Tager, pp. 283–284.  
         ^ 
           Levy, Leonard (1995). Seasoned Judgments: The American Constitution, Rights, and History. p.&nbsp;307. ISBN&nbsp;9781412833820. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Kemp, Roger (2010). Documents of American Democracy. p.&nbsp;59. ISBN&nbsp;9780786456741.  
         ^ 
           Murrin, John (2011). Liberty, Power, and Equality: A History. ISBN&nbsp;978-0495915874.  
         ^ 
           Hickey, Walter. "The Most Liberal States In America". Business Insider. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Gianoulis, Tina (October 13, 2005). "Noble, Elaine". glbtq: An Encyclopedia of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Culture. Archived from the original on October 30, 2007. Retrieved September 24, 2007.  
         ^ 
           Cave, Damien. "Gerry Studds Dies at 69; First Openly Gay Congressman". The New York Times. Retrieved April 26, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Belluck, Pam (April 4, 2006). "Massachusetts Set to Offer Universal Health Insurance". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Retrieved December 28, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Makes Health Insurance Mandatory". NPR.org. Retrieved December 28, 2019.  
         ^ 
           Shoichet, Catherine E. (May 9, 2019). "Florida is about to ban sanctuary cities. At least 11 other states have, too". CNN.  
         ^ 
           J. Pomante II, Michael; Li, Quan (December 15, 2020). "Cost of Voting in the American States: 2020". Election Law Journal: Rules, Politics, and Policy. 19 (4): 503–509. doi:10.1089/elj.2020.0666. S2CID&nbsp;225139517. Retrieved January 14, 2022.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i 
           "Massachusetts Facts: Politics". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved June 1, 2010.  
         ^ a b 
           "2014 General Election Results". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Sacchetti, Maria (January 12, 2015). "Swampscott celebrates neighbor turned governor". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Number of Legislators and Length of Terms in Years". National Conference of State Legislatures. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Members of the 111th Congress". United States Senate. Retrieved October 18, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Directory of Representatives". United States House of Representatives. Retrieved January 19, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Geographic Boundaries of United States Courts of Appeals and United States District Courts" (PDF). US: United States Courts. Retrieved May 12, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Distribution of 2004 and 2008 Electoral Votes". Electoral College. US: National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved June 2, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Frequently Asked Questions". Electoral College. US: National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved June 2, 2010.  
         ^ Brown &amp; Tager 2000, p.&nbsp;310.  
         ^ 
           Page, Susan; Lawrence, Jill (July 11, 2004). "Does 'Massachusetts liberal' label still matter?". USA Today. Retrieved October 17, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "1980 Presidential General Election Results—Massachusetts". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "1984 Presidential General Election Results—Massachusetts". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved May 5, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Registration Statistics". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved February 20, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Members of the House of Representatives". Massachusetts House of Representatives. Retrieved January 18, 2019.  
         ^ 
           "Members of the Senate". Massachusetts Senate. Retrieved January 18, 2019.  
         ^ 
           Leip, David. "General Election Results—Massachusetts". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved November 18, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Gordon, Meryl (January 14, 2002). "Weld at Heart". New York. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Vennochi, Joan (June 17, 2007). "Romney's liberal shadow". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Mass. GOP Voters Like Trump More Than Their Republican Governors". www.wbur.org. Retrieved December 5, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Same-sex couples ready to make history in Massachusetts". CNN. May 17, 2004. Retrieved July 31, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Makes Health Insurance Mandatory". NPR. July 3, 2007. Retrieved October 18, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "2008 Return of Votes Complete" (PDF). United States House of Representatives elections in Massachusetts, 2008. December 17, 2008. Retrieved October 18, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts voters approve ballot measure to legalize medical marijuana". Boston Globe. Retrieved April 13, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts issues first marijuana license". CommonWealth. June 21, 2018. Retrieved August 30, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Religion in America: U.S. Religious Data, Demographics and Statistics". Pew Research Center's Religion &amp; Public Life Project. Retrieved April 17, 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Romo, Vanessa (December 29, 2020). "Massachusetts Senate Overrides Veto, Passes Law Expanding Abortion Access". NPR.org. Retrieved January 11, 2021.  
         ^ a b 
           "Information and Historical Data on Cities, Towns, and Counties in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved June 8, 2010.  
         ^ See Administrative divisions of Massachusetts#The city/town distinction.  
         ^ 
           "Quick Facts: Boston, Massachusetts". U.S. Census Bureau. United States Census Bureau. July 1, 2019. Retrieved June 13, 2020.  
         ^ 
           Thomas, G. Scott. "Boston's population stays flat, but still ranks as 11th-largest in U.S. (BBJ DataCenter)". American City Business Journals. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ a b Sokolow 1997, pp.&nbsp;293–6.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Facts Part One: Concise Facts". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Population by County". indexmundi.com. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Middlesex County, Massachusetts". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved May 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Government: County Government". League of Women Voters. December 9, 2012. Retrieved October 2, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Largest Cities by population". 2019 U.S. Census Bureau. July 1, 2019. Retrieved June 13, 2020.  
         ^ 
           "UConn Poll: New Englanders &amp; Regional Identity". news.uconn.edu.  
         ^ 
           "History Museums". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Retrieved May 6, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Walden Pond State Reservation". Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. Retrieved May 6, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Henry Wadsworth Longfellow". National Park Service. Retrieved May 30, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Details—Sunday—Massachusetts". Academy of American Poets. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ a b 
           "Miscellaneous Massachusetts Facts". Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. Retrieved May 30, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Norman Rockewell Museum of Vermont". Norman Rockwell Museum of Vermont. Archived from the original on May 3, 2015. Retrieved May 6, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "Music". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on October 10, 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Mission | History".  
         ^ 
           "About the Cape Cod Symphony Orchestra". Cape Cod Symphony Orchestra. Archived from the original on December 3, 2010. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Our History". Springfield Symphony Orchestra. Archived from the original on April 18, 2010. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Arts". MA, US: Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on January 3, 2010. Retrieved May 30, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Leddy, Charles 'Chuck' (January 10, 2008). "Rocking history lesson shows city was in a class by itself". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Staind | Biography &amp; History". AllMusic.  
         ^ 
           "Godsmack | Biography &amp; History". AllMusic. Retrieved January 14, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Film Festivals". MA, US: Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on October 10, 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Museums". City of Boston. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Art Museums". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on October 10, 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Places To Go". National Park Service. Retrieved December 30, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Black Heritage Trail". Museum of African American History. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "About Plimoth Plantation". Plimoth Plantation. Archived from the original on May 26, 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Old Sturbridge Village". Old Sturbridge Village. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Siddiqui, Faiz; Ellement, John R.; Finucane, Martin (July 2, 2014). "Boston plans to hold Fourth of July celebrations Thursday". The Boston Globe. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Kush, Bronislaus B. "Summer Nationals Weekend Revs Up". Worcester Telegram. Retrieved March 15, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "A Spectator's Guide To The 2015 Boston Marathon". WBUR-FM. Retrieved May 8, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Southern New England". Appalachian Mountain Club. Archived from the original on August 3, 2010. Retrieved June 2, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Fishing &amp; charters". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on October 6, 2010. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Whale watching". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on October 6, 2010. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Skiing/snowboarding". Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism. Archived from the original on March 8, 2010. Retrieved June 5, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Hunting". Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "10 Top Catholic Shrines in the U.S." February 15, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Nielson Media Research Local Universe Estimates (US)". 2005. Archived from the original on May 17, 2006. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Springfield—Holyoke TV Channels". Station Index. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "WGBH—About Us". WGBH-TV. Archived from the original on March 5, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "American Experience". WGBH-TV. Archived from the original on May 6, 2010. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "US Newspaper—Search Results (Massachusetts)". Audit Bureau of Circulations. Archived from the original on August 23, 2011. Retrieved May 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "FM Query Results (Massachusetts)". Federal Communications Commission. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "General". WZBC. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "About". Harvard Crimson. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "About the BU Literary Society and Clarion". Boston University. Archived from the original on May 8, 2010. Retrieved May 27, 2010.  
         ^ County Health Rankings and Roadmaps. University of Wisconsin.  
         ^ 
           "2015 Annual Report". America's Health Rankings. Retrieved February 8, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Doctors per 100,000 Resident Population, 2007". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on October 16, 2010. Retrieved October 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Infant Mortality Rate, 2006". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on October 16, 2010. Retrieved October 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Persons With and Without Health Insurance Coverage by State: 2007" (PDF). United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 16, 2010. Retrieved October 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Here's how your life expectancy varies based on which state you're born in". Business Insider. Retrieved December 10, 2017.  
         ^ a b 
           "Overweight and Obesity (BMI)—2007". Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Archived from the original on March 6, 2013. Retrieved October 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Booziest states in America: Who binge drinks most?". CBS News. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The United States Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service". Journal of the American Medical Association. 43 (5): 326. July 30, 1904. doi:10.1001/jama.1904.92500050002. Retrieved February 20, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "U.S. Marine Hospital". Chelsea Historical Society. Retrieved February 20, 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Massachusetts Hospitals: Directory". Massachusetts Hospital Association. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014–15". U.S. News &amp; World Report. Archived from the original on March 1, 2012. Retrieved June 10, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Hospital Overview". Massachusetts General Hospital. Retrieved October 24, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Facts and Figures: 2009–2010". Harvard Medical School. Archived from the original on March 5, 2012. Retrieved October 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "About Us". Boston University School of Medicine. Archived from the original on April 14, 2010. Retrieved October 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "An Introduction to UMass Medical School". University of Massachusetts Medical School. Retrieved October 25, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Campuses". MCPHS University. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Celtics History—Championship Wins". National Basketball Association. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "MLB World Series Winners". ESPN. Archived from the original on October 11, 2010. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Stanley Cup Winners". Hockey Hall of Fame. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Super Bowl History". National Football League. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Butler, Dylan (December 6, 2020). "New England Revolution ownership committed to Boston-area home: "We want to build the stadium"". Major League Soccer. Retrieved August 8, 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "AHL Staff Directory". American Hockey League. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "College Football Teams (FBS and FCS)". ESPN. Retrieved October 18, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "College Basketball Teams—Division I Teams". ESPN. Retrieved October 18, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Cornell Rowing Excels at Eastern Sprints". Cornell University. Retrieved June 6, 2010.  
         ^ 
           "2009 U.S. Open—Past Champions". United States Golf Association. Retrieved October 21, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Deutsche Bank Championship". Professional Golfers' Association of America. Retrieved October 21, 2009.  
         ^ 
           Hass, Trevor (June 4, 2021). "Cannons Lacrosse Club fall to Redwoods in Premier League Lacrosse debut at Gillette Stadium - The Boston Globe". Boston Globe. Retrieved August 8, 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "25 Olympians from Massachusetts". GoLocalWorcester. Retrieved May 7, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Ranking the Top 50 Athletes from Massachusetts". May 30, 2017.  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
       
        
         Brebner, John Bartlet (1927). New England's Outpost: Acadia Before the Conquest of Canada. New York, NY: Columbia University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7812-6367-2. 
        
         Brettell, Caroline (2003). Anthropology and Migration:Essays on Transnational Ethnicity and Identity. Walnut Creek, CA: AltaMira Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7591-0320-7. 
        
         Brown, Richard D; Tager, Jack (2000). Massachusetts: A Concise History. Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55849-248-6. 
        
         Dejnozka, Edward L; Gifford, Charles S; Kapel, David E; Kapel, Marilyn B (1982). American Educators' Encyclopedia. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-313-20954-3. 
        
         Goldfield, David; Abbott, Carl; Anderson, Virginia DeJohn; Argersinger, Jo Ann E; Argersinger, Peter H; Barney, William L; Weir, Robert M (1998). The American Journey—A History of the United States. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-656562-8. 
        
         Koplow, David A (2004). Smallpox: The Fight to Eradicate a Global Scourge. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-520-24220-3. 
        
         Sokolow, Alvin D (1997). "Town and Township Government: Serving Rural and Suburban Communities". Handbook of Local Government Administration. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8247-9782-9.
        
       
      Further reading 
      Overviews and surveys 
      
       Hall, Donald. ed. The Encyclopedia of New England (2005) 
       Works Progress Administration. Guide to Massachusetts (1939)
       
      Secondary sources 
      
       Abrams, Richard M. Conservatism in a Progressive Era: Massachusetts Politics, 1900–1912 (1964) 
       Adams, James Truslow. Revolutionary New England, 1691–1776 (1923) 
       Adams, James Truslow. New England in the Republic, 1776–1850 (1926) 
       Andrews, Charles M. The Fathers of New England: A Chronicle of the Puritan Commonwealths (1919), short survey 
       Conforti, Joseph A. Imagining New England: Explorations of Regional Identity from the Pilgrims to the Mid-Twentieth Century (2001) 
       Cumbler, John T. Reasonable Use: The People, the Environment, and the State, New England, 1790–1930 (1930), environmental history 
       Fischer, David Hackett. Paul Revere's Ride (1994), 1775 in depth 
       Flagg, Charles Allcott, A Guide to Massachusetts local history, Salem&nbsp;: Salem Press Company, 1907. 
       Green, James R., William F. Hartford, and Tom Juravich. Commonwealth of Toil: Chapters in the History of Massachusetts Workers and Their Unions (1996) 
       Huthmacher, J. Joseph. Massachusetts People and Politics, 1919–1933 (1958) 
       Labaree, Benjamin Woods. Colonial Massachusetts: A History (1979) 
       Morison, Samuel Eliot. The Maritime History of Massachusetts, 1783–1860 (1921) 
       Peirce, Neal R. The New England States: People, Politics, and Power in the Six New England States (1976), 1960–75 era 
       Porter, Susan L. Women of the Commonwealth: Work, Family, and Social Change in Nineteenth-Century Massachusetts (1996) 
       Sletcher, Michael. New England (2004). 
       Starkey, Marion L. The Devil in Massachusetts (1949), Salem witches 
       Tager, Jack, and John W. Ifkovic, eds. Massachusetts in the Gilded Age: Selected Essays (1985), ethnic groups 
       Zimmerman, Joseph F. The New England Town Meeting: Democracy in Action (1999)
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Massachusettsat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Travel guides from Wikivoyage
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
       Official website 
       Massachusetts Office of Travel and Tourism 
       Massachusetts State Guide from the Library of Congress 
       Massachusetts at Curlie
       
       
       
         
         Preceded&nbsp;by
          
           Connecticut
            
          List of U.S. states by date of admission to the Union Ratified Constitution on February 6, 1788 (6th)  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Maryland
           
         
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Places adjacent to Massachusetts
           
         
         
          
           
            
             
               
               &nbsp;Vermont 
               &nbsp;New Hampshire 
               &nbsp;New Hampshire&nbsp;Maine (15 miles (24&nbsp;km) away) 
              
               
                
                
                
              
               
               &nbsp;New York 
                
                
                 &nbsp;Massachusetts: Outline • Index
                 
                  
               Atlantic Ocean 
              
               
                
                
                
              
               
               &nbsp;New Jersey 
               &nbsp;Connecticut and &nbsp;Rhode Island 
               Cape CodMartha's Vineyard and Nantucket Island 
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            &nbsp;Commonwealth of Massachusetts
           
         
         
          
           
            Boston (capital)
           
         
         
          Topics
          
            
            
             Index 
             Administrative divisions 
             Congressional districts 
             Elections 
             Geography 
             Geology 
             Government 
             History 
             Images 
             Law 
             Lighthouses 
             Music 
             People 
             State symbols 
             Transportation 
             Villages 
             Tourist attractions 
             Windmills
             
           
          
           
            
            
             Seal of Massachusetts
            
           
         
         
          Society
          
            
            
             Culture 
             Crime 
             Demographics 
             Economy 
             Education 
             Politics 
             Sports
             
           
         
         
          Regions
          
            
            
             Cape Ann 
             Central Massachusetts (Blackstone Valley, Montachusett-North County, South County) 
             Greater Boston 
             Greater Lowell 
             Merrimack Valley 
             MetroWest 
             North Shore 
             Southeastern Massachusetts (Cape Cod, South Coast, South Shore, The Islands) 
             Western Massachusetts (The Berkshires, Housatonic Valley, Pioneer Valley, Quabbin-Swift River Valley)
             
           
         
         
          Counties
          
            
            
             Barnstable 
             Berkshire 
             Bristol 
             Dukes 
             Essex 
             Franklin 
             Hampden 
             Hampshire 
             Middlesex 
             Nantucket 
             Norfolk 
             Plymouth 
             Suffolk 
             Worcester 
             Note: Nine former counties were in the District of Maine
             
           
         
         
          Cities
          
            
            
             Agawam 
             Amesbury 
             Attleboro 
             Barnstable 
             Beverly 
             Boston 
             Braintree 
             Bridgewater 
             Brockton 
             Cambridge 
             Chelsea 
             Chicopee 
             East Longmeadow 
             Easthampton 
             Everett 
             Fall River 
             Fitchburg 
             Framingham 
             Franklin 
             Gardner 
             Gloucester 
             Greenfield 
             Haverhill 
             Holyoke 
             Lawrence 
             Leominster 
             Lowell 
             Lynn 
             Malden 
             Marlborough 
             Medford 
             Melrose 
             Methuen 
             New Bedford 
             Newburyport 
             Newton 
             North Adams 
             Northampton 
             Palmer 
             Peabody 
             Pittsfield 
             Quincy 
             Randolph 
             Revere 
             Salem 
             Somerville 
             Southbridge 
             Springfield 
             Taunton 
             Waltham 
             Watertown 
             Westfield 
             West Springfield 
             Weymouth 
             Winthrop 
             Woburn 
             Worcester 
             Note: Municipalities not listed have a town meeting form of government (see all municipalities)
             
           
         
         
          
           
            &nbsp;Massachusetts portal
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Government of Massachusetts
           
         
         
          Legislative
          
            
            
             General Court 
             Senate (Members, President) 
             House of Representatives (Members, Speaker)
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Executive
          
            
            
             Governor (List) 
             Lt. Governor 
             Attorney General 
             Auditor 
             Secretary of the Commonwealth 
             Treasurer and Receiver-General 
             Office for Administration and Finance 
             Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
             Department of Higher Education 
             Emergency Management Agency 
             Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs 
             Department of Environmental Protection 
             Department of Revenue 
             Office of Health and Human Services 
             Office of Housing and Economic Development 
             Office of Labor and Workforce Development 
             Department of Mental Health 
             Department of Public Health 
             Office of Public Safety and Security 
             Department of Public Utilities 
             Department of Transportation 
             Department of Youth Services
             
           
         
         
          Judicial
          
            
            
             Boston Municipal Court 
             District Court 
             Superior Court 
             Land Court 
             Juvenile Court 
             Housing Court 
             Massachusetts Probate and Family Court 
             Appeals Court (Judges) 
             Supreme Judicial Court 
             Essex Probate and Family Court 
             Middlesex Probate and Family Court
             
           
         
         
          Independent agencies
          
            
            
             Board of Library Commissioners 
             Commission Against Discrimination 
             Commission on the Status of Women 
             Disabled Persons Protection Commission 
             Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board 
             Massachusetts District Attorneys 
             Massachusetts Inspector General 
             Office of Campaign and Political Finance 
             Office of the Comptroller 
             Massachusetts Sheriffs 
             State Ethics Commission
             
           
         
         
          Law
          
            
            
             Constitution 
             General Laws 
             Code of Massachusetts Regulations 
             Abortion 
             Alcohol 
             Cannabis 
             Capital punishment 
             Crime 
             Elder law 
             Gambling 
             Gun laws 
             LGBT rights 
             Taxation
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Mayors of cities with populations exceeding 100,000 in Massachusetts
           
         
         
          
           
            
             
             
              Michelle Wu(Boston) 
              Joseph Petty(Worcester) 
              Domenic Sarno(Springfield) 
              William Samaras(Lowell) 
              Sumbul Siddiqui(Cambridge)
              
            
           
          
           
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Protected areas of Massachusetts
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Federal
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  National Historical Parks
                  
                    
                    
                     Adams 
                     Blackstone River Valley 
                     Boston 
                     Lowell 
                     Minute Man 
                     New Bedford Whaling
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  National Historic Sites
                  
                    
                    
                     Boston African American 
                     Frederick Law Olmsted 
                     John Fitzgerald Kennedy 
                     Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters 
                     Salem Maritime 
                     Saugus Iron Works 
                     Springfield Armory
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other National Park Service Units
                  
                    
                    
                     Appalachian National Scenic Trail 
                     Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area 
                     Cape Cod National Seashore
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  National Wildlife Refuges
                  
                    
                    
                     Assabet River 
                     Great Meadows 
                     Mashpee 
                     Massasoit 
                     Monomoy 
                     Nantucket 
                     Nomans Land 
                     Oxbow 
                     Parker River 
                     Silvio O. Conte 
                     Thacher Island
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Wild and Scenic Rivers
                  
                    
                    
                     Sudbury 
                     Assabet 
                     Concord 
                     Taunton 
                     Westfield
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other Protected Areas
                  
                    
                    
                     Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary 
                     Waquoit Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve 
                     West Hill Dam (USACE)
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                State Parks
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Parks
                  
                    
                    
                     Alewife Brook 
                     Ames Nowell 
                     Ashland 
                     Bash Bish Falls 
                     Blackstone River and Canal Heritage 
                     Borderland 
                     Boston Harbor Islands 
                     Bradley Palmer 
                     C. M. Gardner 
                     Callahan 
                     Castle Island State Park 
                     Chicopee Memorial 
                     City Square 
                     Clarksburg 
                     Cochituate 
                     Connecticut River Greenway 
                     Demarest Lloyd 
                     Dighton Rock 
                     Dunn 
                     Ellisville Harbor 
                     Fall River Heritage 
                     Gardner Heritage 
                     Governor Thomas Dudley 
                     Great Brook Farm 
                     Halibut Point 
                     Hampton Ponds 
                     Holyoke Heritage 
                     Hopkinton 
                     Lake Lorraine 
                     Lake Wyola 
                     Lawrence Heritage 
                     Lowell Heritage 
                     Lynn Heritage 
                     Massasoit 
                     Maudslay 
                     Moore 
                     Mount Holyoke Range 
                     Natural Bridge 
                     Nickerson 
                     Pearl Hill 
                     Pilgrim 
                     Quinsigamond 
                     Robinson 
                     Roxbury Heritage 
                     Rutland 
                     Skinner 
                     South Cape Beach 
                     Wahconah Falls 
                     Webb Memorial 
                     Wells 
                     Western Gateway Heritage 
                     Whitehall 
                     Wompatuck
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Reservations
                  
                    
                    
                     Beaver Brook 
                     Belle Isle Marsh 
                     Blue Hills 
                     Breakheart 
                     Charles River 
                     Chestnut Hill 
                     Cutler 
                     Dorchester Shores 
                     Elm Bank 
                     Fort Phoenix 
                     Hammond Pond 
                     Hemlock Gorge 
                     Horseneck Beach 
                     Jug End 
                     Lynn Shore 
                     Middlesex Fells 
                     Mount Everett 
                     Mount Greylock 
                     Mount Sugarloaf 
                     Mount Tom 
                     Myles Standish 
                     Mystic River 
                     Nahant Beach 
                     Nantasket Beach 
                     Nasketucket Bay 
                     Neponset River 
                     Pope John Paul II 
                     Purgatory Chasm 
                     Quincy Quarries 
                     Quincy Shore 
                     Revere Beach 
                     Rumney Marsh 
                     Salisbury Beach 
                     Sandy Point 
                     Scusset Beach 
                     Stony Brook 
                     Upper Charles River 
                     Wachusett Mountain 
                     Walden Pond 
                     West Island 
                     Weymouth 
                     Wilson Mountain
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other
                  
                    
                    
                     Appalachian Trail 
                     Ashuwillticook Rail Trail 
                     Cape Cod Rail Trail 
                     Fort Revere 
                     Lake Dennison Recreation Area 
                     Lower Neponset River Trail 
                     Nashua River Rail Trail 
                     Norwottuck Branch Rail Trail 
                     Quabbin Reservoir 
                     Southwest Corridor Park 
                     Squantum Point Park 
                     Streeter Point Recreation Area 
                     Sudbury Reservoir 
                     Wachusett Reservoir 
                     Ware River Watershed Area
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                State Forests
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Barnstable 
                 Beartown 
                 Berkley 
                 Billerica 
                 Brimfield 
                 Chester-Blandford 
                 DAR 
                 Douglas 
                 Erving 
                 F. Gilbert Hills 
                 Federated Women's Club 
                 Franklin 
                 Freetown-Fall River 
                 Georgetown-Rowley 
                 Gilbert A. Bliss 
                 Granville 
                 Harold Parker 
                 Kenneth Dubuque Memorial 
                 Leominster 
                 Lowell-Dracut-Tyngsboro 
                 Manuel F. Correllus 
                 Mohawk Trail 
                 Monroe 
                 Mount Grace 
                 Mount Washington 
                 Myles Standish 
                 October Mountain 
                 Otter River 
                 Pittsfield 
                 Sandisfield 
                 Savoy Mountain 
                 Shawme-Crowell 
                 Spencer 
                 Tolland 
                 Upton 
                 Wendell 
                 Willard Brook 
                 Warren H. Manning 
                 Willowdale 
                 Windsor
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Wildlife management areas
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  WildlifeManagement Areas
                  
                    
                    
                     Agawam Lake 
                     Agawam Mill Pond 
                     Ashby 
                     Ashfield Hawley 
                     Attitash 
                     Ayer Game Farm 
                     Baddacook Pond 
                     Bakers Pond 
                     Bay Circuit Trail 
                     Bearse Pond 
                     Becket 
                     Bennett 
                     Birch Hill 
                     Black Brook 
                     Blackstone / West River 
                     Bolton Flats 
                     Boxboro Station 
                     Brayton Point Salt Marsh 
                     Breakneck Brook 
                     Brewer Brook 
                     Bullock Ledge 
                     Burrage Pond 
                     Canoe River 
                     Catamount 
                     Chalet 
                     Chase Garden Creek Salt Marsh 
                     Childs River 
                     Chockalog Swamp 
                     Church Homestead 
                     Clapps Pond 
                     Clinton Bluff 
                     Concord River 
                     Connecticut River 
                     Cook Pond 
                     Copicut 
                     Coy Hill 
                     Crane Pond 
                     Cummington 
                     Cusky Pond 
                     Dartmoor Farm 
                     Darwin Scott Memorial 
                     Day Mountain 
                     Deerfield River 
                     Dogfish Bar Beach Coastal 
                     Dolomite Ledges 
                     Dunstable Brook 
                     E. Kent Swift 
                     Eagle Island 
                     East Mountain 
                     Eastham Salt Marsh 
                     Elbow Meadow 
                     English Salt Marsh 
                     Eugene D. Moran 
                     Facing Rock 
                     Fairfield Brook 
                     Farmington River 
                     Fish Brook 
                     Fisherville Pond 
                     Fisk Forestdale Lot 
                     Fisk Meadows 
                     Five Mile River 
                     Flagg Swamp 
                     Flint Pond 
                     Four Chimneys 
                     Fox Den 
                     Fox Island Salt Marsh 
                     Frances A. Crane 
                     Freetown Swamp 
                     George L. Darey Housatonic Valley 
                     Glen Echo Lake 
                     Gosnold 
                     Grassy Pond (Dennis) 
                     Grassy Pond (Plymouth) 
                     Green River (Franklin County) 
                     Green River (Berkshire County) 
                     Greenfield River 
                     Halfway Pond 
                     Hamilton  
                     Hancock 
                     Harlow / Cooks Pond 
                     Haskell Swamp 
                     Hauk Swamp 
                     Hawksnest State Park 
                     Hawley 
                     Head Of The Plains 
                     Herman Covey 
                     High Ridge 
                     Hinsdale Flats 
                     Hiram H. Fox 
                     Hockomock Swamp 
                     Hog Pond Lot 
                     Honey Pot 
                     Hoosatonic River 
                     Hoosic River 
                     Hop Brook 
                     Housatonic River 
                     Hubbard Brook 
                     Hunting Hills 
                     Hyannis Ponds 
                     Ipswich River 
                     John J. Kelly 
                     Joint Base Cape Cod 
                     Jug End Fen 
                     Jug End 
                     Kampoosa Fen 
                     Katama Plains 
                     Knops Pond 
                     Konkapot River 
                     Lackey Pond 
                     Lake Lorraine 
                     Lake Rohunta 
                     Lake Snipatuit 
                     Lake Warner 
                     Lanesboro 
                     Lawrence Brook 
                     Lawrence Pond Lot 
                     Leadmine 
                     Leyden 
                     Lilly Pond 
                     Little Alum Pond 
                     Long Sought For Pond 
                     Maple Hill 
                     Maple Springs 
                     Martha Deering 
                     Martin H. Burns 
                     Mascuppic Lake 
                     Mashpee Pine Barrens 
                     Mashpee Pond Lot 
                     Mashpee River 
                     Mckinstry Brook 
                     Meetinghouse Swamp 
                     Merrill Pond 
                     Miacomet Heath 
                     Mill River 
                     Millers River 
                     Mine Brook 
                     Montague Plains 
                     Montague 
                     Moose Brook 
                     Moose Brook 
                     Moose Hill 
                     Mossy Pond 
                     Mount Watatic Reservation 
                     Mt. Esther 
                     Mt. Toby Highlands 
                     Mt. Toby 
                     Mt. Tom 
                     Muddy Brook 
                     Muddy Pond 
                     Mulpus Brook 
                     Nashua River 
                     Natty Brook 
                     Nemasket River 
                     Nissitissit River 
                     Noquochoke 
                     Nordeen Marsh 
                     North Brookfield 
                     North Shore Salt Marsh 
                     Northboro  
                     Oakham 
                     Olivers Pond 
                     Orange 
                     Otis 
                     Packard Pond 
                     Palmer 
                     Pantry Brook 
                     Pauchaug Brook 
                     Peru 
                     Peterson Swamp 
                     Phillipston 
                     Podunk Marsh 
                     Poland Brook 
                     Popple Camp 
                     Popponesset Spit 
                     Poutwater Pond 
                     Powell Brook 
                     Prince River 
                     Provincetown Route 6 Corridor 
                     Purchade Brook 
                     Quaboag 
                     Quacumquasit 
                     Quag Pond Bog 
                     Quashnet River 
                     Quashnet Woods State Reservation 
                     Quinapoxet River 
                     Quinsigamond Marsh 
                     Quisset 
                     Raccoon Hill 
                     Rainbow Beach 
                     Red Brook 
                     Richardson 
                     Robbins Pond 
                     Rochester 
                     Rocky Gutter 
                     Rowe 
                     Salisbury Salt Marsh 
                     Salisbury Salt Marsh 
                     Sandwich Game Farm 
                     Sandy Pond 
                     Satan's Kingdom 
                     Savage Hill 
                     Savoy 
                     Sawmill River 
                     Scorton Creek Coastal 
                     SE Mass Bioreserve 
                     Sevenmile River 
                     Shattuck Brook 
                     Sheperds Island 
                     Shubael Pond 
                     Sibley Brook 
                     Sly Pond 
                     South Barrier Beach 
                     South Meadow Pond 
                     South Shore Salt Marsh 
                     South Triangle Pond 
                     Southampton 
                     Southwick 
                     Spectacle Pond 
                     Springhill Lot 
                     Sputtermill Pond 
                     Squannacook River 
                     Stafford Hill 
                     Sudbury River 
                     Sunderland Islands 
                     Taconic Mountain 
                     Taunton River 
                     Taunton River 
                     Tekoa Mountain 
                     Thad Ellis 
                     Thayer Pond 
                     Three Mile Pond 
                     Townsend  
                     Townsend Hill 
                     Trapfall Brook 
                     Triangle Pond 
                     Tully Brook 
                     Tully Mountain 
                     Tully River 
                     Wakeby Pond 
                     Wales 
                     Walnut Hill 
                     Ware River 
                     Warwick 
                     Wendell 
                     West Meadows 
                     Westboro 
                     Westfield River 
                     Westfield 
                     Weymouth Back River 
                     Whately Great Swamp 
                     Whately Ponds 
                     Whately 
                     Wilbraham Game Farm 
                     William Forward 
                     Williams River 
                     Williamsburg 
                     Winimusset 
                     Wolf Swamp
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  WildlifeSanctuaries
                  
                    
                    
                     Billingsgate Island 
                     Carr Island 
                     E. Howe Forbush 
                     Egg Rock  
                     Grace A. Robson 
                     J.C. Phillips 
                     Knight 
                     Penikese Island  
                     Ram Island (Salisbury) 
                     Ram Island (Mattapoisett) 
                     Susan B. Minns 
                     Tarpaulin Cove 
                     Watatic Mountain
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                The Nature Conservancy
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Black Pond Bog 
                 Boat Meadow 
                 Francis Newhall Woods 
                 Grassy Pond 
                 Greene Swamp 
                 Halfway Pond Island 
                 Hawley Bog 
                 Hockomock Swamp 
                 Hoft Farm 
                 Homer-Watcha Preserve 
                 Katama Plains 
                 McElwain-Olsen 
                 Miacomet Moors 
                 Reed Brook 
                 Drury 
                 Sandy Neck 
                 David H. Smith Preserve and Fire Trail 
                 Stacy Mountain 
                 Tatkon
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Trustees of Reservations
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Agassiz Rock 
                 Governor Oliver Ames Estate 
                 Appleton Farms 
                 Appleton Farms Grass Rides 
                 Ashintully Gardens 
                 Bartholomew's Cobble 
                 Bear's Den 
                 Bear Swamp 
                 Boston Community Gardens 
                 The Brickyard 
                 Bullitt 
                 Chestnut Hill Farm 
                 Colonel John Ashley House 
                 Dunes' Edge Campground 
                 Francis William Bird Park 
                 Eleanor Cabot Bradley Estate 
                 Bridge Island Meadows 
                 Brooks Woodland 
                 William Cullen Bryant Homestead 
                 Cape Poge 
                 Cedariver 
                 Castle Hill 
                 Chapel Brook 
                 Charles River Peninsula 
                 Chase Woodlands 
                 Chesterfield Gorge 
                 Coolidge 
                 Copicut Woods 
                 Cormier Woods 
                 Coskata-Coatue Wildlife Refuge 
                 Crane Beach 
                 Crane Wildlife Refuge 
                 Crowninshield Island 
                 Dexter Drumlin 
                 Dinosaur Footprints 
                 Doane's Falls 
                 Doyle 
                 Dry Hill 
                 East Over 
                 Elliott Laurel 
                 Farandnear 
                 FARM Institute 
                 Field Farm 
                 Fruitlands Museum 
                 Fork Factory Brook 
                 Glendale Falls 
                 Goose Pond 
                 Greenwood Farm 
                 Hales Brook and Sippican River 
                 Halibut Point 
                 Hamlin 
                 Allen C. Haskell Public Gardens 
                 Holmes 
                 Governor Hutchinson's Field 
                 Jacobs Hill 
                 Little Tom Mountain 
                 Land of Providence 
                 Leatherbee Woods 
                 Long Hill 
                 Long Point 
                 Lowell Holly 
                 Lyman Reserve 
                 Malcolm 
                 Mashpee River 
                 McLennan 
                 Medfield Meadow Lots 
                 Medfield Rhododendrons 
                 Menemsha Hills 
                 Misery Islands 
                 Mission House 
                 Monument Mountain 
                 Moose Hill Farm 
                 Moraine Farm 
                 Mount Ann Park 
                 Mount Warner 
                 Mountain Meadow 
                 Mytoi 
                 Naumkeag 
                 Noanet Woodlands 
                 Noon Hill 
                 Norris 
                 North Common Meadow 
                 Norton Point Beach 
                 Notchview 
                 Old Manse 
                 Old Town Hill 
                 Peaked Mountain 
                 Pegan Hill 
                 Peters 
                 Petticoat Hill 
                 Pierce 
                 Pine and Hemlock Knoll 
                 Powisset Farm 
                 Questing 
                 Quinebaug Woods 
                 Ravenswood Park 
                 Redemption Rock 
                 Rock House 
                 Rocky Narrows 
                 Rocky Woods 
                 Royalston Falls 
                 Shattuck 
                 Signal Hill 
                 Slocum's River 
                 Stavros 
                 Stevens-Coolidge 
                 Swift River 
                 Tantiusques 
                 Tully Lake Campground 
                 Two Mile Farm 
                 Tyringham Cobble 
                 Ward 
                 Wasque 
                 Weir Hill 
                 Weir River Farm 
                 Westport Town Farm 
                 Whitney and Thayer Woods 
                 World's End
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Audubon Society Wildlife Sanctuaries
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Allens Pond 
                 Arcadia 
                 Ashumet Holly 
                 Attleboro Springs 
                 Barnstable Great Marsh 
                 Blue Hills Trailside Museum 
                 Boston Nature Center 
                 Broad Meadow Brook 
                 Broadmoor 
                 Burncoat Pond 
                 Canoe Meadows 
                 Daniel Webster 
                 Drumlin Farm 
                 Eagle Lake 
                 Eastern Point 
                 Endicott 
                 Felix Neck 
                 Flat Rock 
                 Graves Farm 
                 Great Neck 
                 Habitat 
                 High Ledges 
                 Ipswich River 
                 Joppa Flats 
                 Kettle Island 
                 Lake Wampanoag 
                 Laughing Brook 
                 Lime Kiln Farm 
                 Lincoln Woods 
                 Long Pasture 
                 Lynes Woods 
                 Marblehead Neck 
                 Moose Hill 
                 Museum of American Bird Art 
                 Nahant Thicket 
                 Nashoba Brook 
                 North Hill Marsh 
                 North River 
                 Oak Knoll 
                 Pierpont Meadow 
                 Pleasant Valley 
                 Poor Farm Hill 
                 Richardson Brook 
                 Road's End 
                 Rough Meadows 
                 Rutland Brook 
                 Sampsons Island 
                 Sesachacha Heathlands 
                 Skunknett River 
                 Stony Brook 
                 Wachusett Meadow 
                 Waseeka 
                 Wellfleet Bay 
                 Wildwood Camp
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Other
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Concord Land Conservation Trust 
                 Harvard Forest 
                 Lincoln Land Conservation Trust 
                 Lloyd Center for the Environment 
                 Lynn Woods Reservation 
                 Norcross Wildlife Sanctuary 
                 Old Harbor Wildlife Refuge
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
             Boston 
             Emerald Necklace 
             Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            New England
           
         
         
          Topics
          
            
            
             Autumn 
             Climate 
             Cuisine 
             Culture 
             Demographics 
             Economy 
             Elections 
             Flag 
             Geography 
             Geology 
             Government 
             History 
              
               Prehistory 
               New England Colonies 
               Dominion of New England 
               New England Confederation
               
             Literature 
             Place names of Native-American origin 
             Politics 
             Sports
             
           
         
         
          States
          
            
            
             Connecticut 
             Maine 
             Massachusetts 
             New Hampshire 
             Rhode Island 
             Vermont
             
           
         
         
          Major cities
          
            
            
             Bridgeport 
             Burlington 
             Cambridge 
             Lowell 
             Manchester 
             New Bedford 
             New Haven 
             Portland 
             Quincy 
             Somerville 
             Springfield 
             Stamford 
             Waterbury 
             Worcester
             
           
         
         
          State capitals
          
            
            
             Augusta 
             Boston 
             Concord 
             Hartford 
             Montpelier 
             Providence
             
           
         
         
          Transportation
          
           
           
            
             
              Passenger rail
              
                
                
                 MBTA (MA, RI) 
                 CapeFLYER (MA) 
                 Northeast Corridor (CT, MA, RI) 
                 Acela (CT, MA, RI) 
                 Downeaster (ME, NH, MA) 
                 Vermonter (CT, MA, NH, VT) 
                 Shore Line East (CT) 
                 Metro-North (CT) 
                 Hartford Line (CT, MA) 
                 New Haven Line (CT) 
                 Valley Flyer (CT, MA) 
                 Hartford Line (Amtrak) (CT, MA) 
                 High-speed Northern New England (proposed)
                 
               
             
             
              Major Interstates
              
                
                
                 I-84 (CT, MA) 
                 I-89 (NH, VT) 
                 I-90 (Mass Pike) (MA) 
                 I-91 (CT, MA, VT) 
                 I-93 (MA, NH, VT) 
                 I-95 (CT, RI, MA, NH, ME) 
                 defunct: New England road marking system
                 
               
             
             
              Airports
              
                
                
                 Bradley (CT) 
                 Burlington (VT) 
                 T. F. Green (RI) 
                 Manchester–Boston (NH) 
                 Logan (MA) 
                 New Haven (CT) 
                 Portland (ME) 
                 Worcester (MA)
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;New England portal 
              Category 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Northeastern United States
           
         
         
          Topics
          
            
            
             Culture 
             Geography 
             Government 
             History
             
           
         
         
          States
          
            
            
             Connecticut 
             Delaware 
             Maryland 
             Massachusetts 
             New Hampshire 
             New Jersey 
             New York 
             Maine 
             Pennsylvania 
             Rhode Island 
             Vermont
             
           
         
         
          Federal districts
          
            
            
             District of Columbia
             
           
         
         
          Major cities
          
            
            
             Allentown 
             Baltimore 
             Boston 
             Bridgeport 
             Buffalo 
             Burlington 
             Cambridge 
             Elizabeth 
             Erie 
             Hartford 
             Jersey City 
             Lowell 
             Manchester 
             New Haven 
             New York City 
             Newark 
             Paterson 
             Philadelphia 
             Pittsburgh 
             Portland 
             Providence 
             Quincy 
             Reading 
             Rochester 
             Scranton 
             Springfield 
             Stamford 
             Syracuse 
             Washington, D.C. 
             Waterbury 
             Wilmington 
             Worcester
             
           
         
         
          State capitals
          
            
            
             Albany 
             Annapolis 
             Augusta 
             Boston 
             Concord 
             Dover 
             Hartford 
             Harrisburg 
             Montpelier 
             Providence 
             Trenton
             
           
         
         
          See Also
          
            
            
             Northeast megalopolis
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
             Thirteen Colonies
           
         
         
          
            
            
             New England Colonies 
             Middle Colonies 
             Chesapeake Colonies 
             Tobacco Colonies 
             Southern Colonies 
             United Colonies
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Virginia (1607–1776) 
             New Hampshire (1629–1641; 1679–1686; 1689–1776) 
             Maryland (1632–1776) 
             Connecticut (1636–1776) 
             Rhode Island (1636–1776) 
             Delaware (1664–1776) 
             New Jersey (1664–1673; 1702–1776) 
             New York (1664–1776) 
             Pennsylvania (1681–1776) 
             Massachusetts Bay (1691–1776) 
             North Carolina (1712–1776) 
             South Carolina (1712–1776) 
             Georgia (1732–1776)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Other British colonial entities in the contemporary United States
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Roanoke (1585–1590) 
             Popham (1607–1608) 
             Jamestown (1607–1699) 
             Plymouth (1620–1686; 1689–1691) 
             Maine (1622–1658) 
             Saint Croix (1625–1650) 
             Massachusetts Bay Colony (1629–1686; 1689–1691) 
             Carolina (1629–1712) 
             Saybrook (1635–1644) 
             New Haven (1638–1664) 
             New England Confederation (1643–1654; 1675–c. 1680) 
             Rupert's Land (1670–1811) 
             North-Western Territory (1670–1870) 
             East Jersey (1674–1702) 
             West Jersey (1674–1702) 
             Dominion of New England (1686–1689) 
             Indian Reserve (1763–1783) 
             Quebec (1763–1783) 
             East Florida (1763–1783) 
             West Florida (1763–1783) 
             New Ireland (1779–1783; 1814–1815) 
             Columbia District (1810–1846) 
             Red River Colony (1811–1818) 
             Stickeen Territories (1862–1863) 
             Colony of British Columbia (1863–1866) 
             Colony of British Columbia and Vancouver Island (1866–1871) 
             Province of British Columbia (1871–1903)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Non-British colonial entities in the contemporary United States
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Columbian Viceroyalty (1492–1535) 
             New Spain 
              
               1521–1821; Spanish Florida, 1565–1763 
               New Navarre, 1565–1821 
               Captaincy General of the Philippines, 1565–1898 
               Captaincy General of Puerto Rico, 1580–1898 
               Santa Fe de Nuevo México, 1598–1821 
               Captaincy General of Cuba, 1607–1801 
               Spanish Saint Croix, 1650–1651 
               Spanish Texas, 1690–1821 
               Las Californias, 1767–1804 
               Spanish Louisiana, 1769–1801 
               Provincias Internas, 1776–1821 
               Spanish East Florida, 1783–1821 
               Spanish West Florida, 1783–1821 
               Alta California, 1804–1821
               
             New France 
              
               1534–1763; French Florida, 1562–1565 
               Hospitaller Saint Croix, 1651–1665 
               French Saint Croix, 1665–1733 
               French Louisiana, 1682–1763 and 1801–1803
               
             New Netherland (1614–1667) 
             Dutch Virgin Islands (1625–1672) 
             New Sweden (1638–1655) 
             Danish West Indies (1672–1917) 
             Brandenburger Saint Thomas (1685–1754) 
             Krabbeninsel (1689–1693) 
             Scottish Darien Company (1698) 
             Russian America (1799–1867) 
             German New Guinea (1884–1919)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
             Political divisions of the United States
           
         
         
          
           
            List of states and territories
           
         
         
          States
          
            
            
             Alabama 
             Alaska 
             Arizona 
             Arkansas 
             California 
             Colorado 
             Connecticut 
             Delaware 
             Florida 
             Georgia 
             Hawaii 
             Idaho 
             Illinois 
             Indiana 
             Iowa 
             Kansas 
             Kentucky 
             Louisiana 
             Maine 
             Maryland 
             Massachusetts 
             Michigan 
             Minnesota 
             Mississippi 
             Missouri 
             Montana 
             Nebraska 
             Nevada 
             New Hampshire 
             New Jersey 
             New Mexico 
             New York 
             North Carolina 
             North Dakota 
             Ohio 
             Oklahoma 
             Oregon 
             Pennsylvania 
             Rhode Island 
             South Carolina 
             South Dakota 
             Tennessee 
             Texas 
             Utah 
             Vermont 
             Virginia 
             Washington 
             West Virginia 
             Wisconsin 
             Wyoming
             
           
         
         
          Federal district
          
           
            Washington, D.C.
           
         
         
          Insular areas
          
            
            
             American Samoa 
             Guam 
             Northern Mariana Islands 
             Puerto Rico  
             U.S. Virgin Islands
             
           
         
         
          Outlying islands
          
            
            
             Baker Island 
             Howland Island 
             Jarvis Island 
             Johnston Atoll 
             Kingman Reef 
             Midway Atoll 
             Navassa Island 
             Palmyra Atoll 
             Wake Island
             
           
         
         
          Indian reservations
          
            
            
             List of Indian reservations
             
           
         
         
          Others
          
            
            
             Federal enclave
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         United States
        
        
         New England
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             MusicBrainz area 
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
       
      Coordinates: 42°15′35″N 71°48′30″W﻿ / ﻿42.2596°N 71.8083°W﻿ / 42.2596; -71.8083﻿ (Commonwealth of Massachusetts)     
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Massachusetts&amp;oldid=1070993713"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Massachusetts
       1788 establishments in the United States
       New England states
       Northeastern United States
       States and territories established in 1788
       States of the East Coast of the United States
       States of the United States
       Contiguous United States
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Pages with non-numeric formatnum arguments
       CS1 errors: external links
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty
       CS1 maint: url-status
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from June 2018
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Use mdy dates from August 2021
       Pages using infobox settlement with possible nickname list
       Pages using infobox settlement with possible motto list
       Pages using infobox settlement with no coordinates
       Articles with hAudio microformats
       Pages including recorded pronunciations
       All articles lacking reliable references
       Articles lacking reliable references from December 2020
       All articles with failed verification
       Articles with failed verification from September 2019
       All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2019
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
       Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
       Articles with Curlie links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with MusicBrainz area identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Coordinates on Wikidata
       Good articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikinews
       Wikivoyage
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       አማርኛ
       Anarâškielâ
       Ænglisc
       العربية
       Aragonés
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Արեւմտահայերէն
       Arpetan
       Asturianu
       Avañe'ẽ
       Aymar aru
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Bislama
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       Chavacano de Zamboanga
       Corsu
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       الدارجة
       Davvisámegiella
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Emiliàn e rumagnòl
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Gagauz
       Gàidhlig
       Galego
       𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       Хальмг
       한국어
       Hausa
       Hawaiʻi
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Igbo
       Ilokano
       বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Interlingue
       ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitut
       Iñupiak
       Ирон
       IsiXhosa
       IsiZulu
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       Kabɩyɛ
       Kapampangan
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Кырык мары
       Ladino
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Ligure
       Limburgs
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Lombard
       Magyar
       मैथिली
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       Māori
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       مازِرونی
       Bahasa Melayu
       ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Dorerin Naoero
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       पालि
       پنجابی
       Papiamentu
       پښتو
       Picard
       Piemontèis
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Qırımtatarca
       Română
       Rumantsch
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       संस्कृतम्
       Sardu
       Scots
       Seeltersk
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ
       Ślůnski
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       ᏣᎳᎩ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
       Vahcuengh
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       Volapük
       文言
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Zeêuws
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 09:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
