
 
  
   
  Experiment - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Experiment 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Scientific procedure performed to validate a hypothesis
       
      
      
       "Experimental" redirects here. For the musical classification, see Experimental music.
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Experiment (disambiguation).
       
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
         Astronaut David Scott performs a gravity test on the moon with a hammer and feather
        
       
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Even very young children perform rudimentary experiments to learn about the world and how things work.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Research
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            List of academic fields
           
            
            
             Applied sciences 
              
               R &amp; D
               
             Formal sciences 
             Humanities 
             Natural sciences 
             Professions 
             Social sciences
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research design
           
            
            
             Research proposal 
             Research question 
             Writing 
              
               Argument 
               Referencing
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophy
           
            
            
              Constructivism 
             Empiricism 
             Positivism / Antipositivism / Postpositivism 
             Realism 
              
               Critical realism 
               Subtle realism
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research strategy
           
            
            
             Interdisciplinary 
             Multimethodology 
             Qualitative 
             Quantitative
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methodology
           
            
            
             Action research 
             Art methodology 
             Critical theory 
             Feminism 
             Grounded theory 
             Hermeneutics 
             Historiography 
             Narrative inquiry 
             Phenomenology 
             Pragmatism 
             Scientific method
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Case study 
             Content analysis 
             Descriptive statistics 
             Discourse analysis 
             Ethnography 
             Experiment 
              
               Field experiment 
               Social experiment 
               Quasi-experiment
               
             Field research 
             Historical method 
             Inferential statistics 
             Interviews 
             Mapping 
              
               Cultural mapping
               
             Phenomenography 
             Secondary research 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Literature review 
               Meta-analysis 
               Scoping review 
               Systematic review
               
             Scientific modelling 
              
               Simulation
               
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Tools and software
           
            
            
             Argument technology 
             Geographic information system software 
             Library and information science software 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Reference management
               
             Science software 
              
               Qualitative data analysis 
               Simulation 
               Statistics
              
            
           
           
        
        
          Philosophy portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      An experiment is a procedure carried out to support or refute a hypothesis, or determine the efficacy or likelihood of something previously untried. Experiments provide insight into cause-and-effect by demonstrating what outcome occurs when a particular factor is manipulated. Experiments vary greatly in goal and scale but always rely on repeatable procedure and logical analysis of the results. There also exist natural experimental studies. 
      A child may carry out basic experiments to understand how things fall to the ground, while teams of scientists may take years of systematic investigation to advance their understanding of a phenomenon. Experiments and other types of hands-on activities are very important to student learning in the science classroom. Experiments can raise test scores and help a student become more engaged and interested in the material they are learning, especially when used over time. Experiments can vary from personal and informal natural comparisons (e.g. tasting a range of chocolates to find a favorite), to highly controlled (e.g. tests requiring complex apparatus overseen by many scientists that hope to discover information about subatomic particles). Uses of experiments vary considerably between the natural and human sciences. 
      Experiments typically include controls, which are designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable. This increases the reliability of the results, often through a comparison between control measurements and the other measurements. Scientific controls are a part of the scientific method. Ideally, all variables in an experiment are controlled (accounted for by the control measurements) and none are uncontrolled. In such an experiment, if all controls work as expected, it is possible to conclude that the experiment works as intended, and that results are due to the effect of the tested variables.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 History 
        3 Types of experiments 
          
          3.1 Controlled experiments 
          3.2 Natural experiments 
          3.3 Field experiments 
           
        4 Contrast with observational study 
        5 Ethics 
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 Further reading 
        9 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      In the scientific method, an experiment is an empirical procedure that arbitrates competing models or hypotheses. Researchers also use experimentation to test existing theories or new hypotheses to support or disprove them. 
      An experiment usually tests a hypothesis, which is an expectation about how a particular process or phenomenon works. However, an experiment may also aim to answer a "what-if" question, without a specific expectation about what the experiment reveals, or to confirm prior results. If an experiment is carefully conducted, the results usually either support or disprove the hypothesis. According to some philosophies of science, an experiment can never "prove" a hypothesis, it can only add support. On the other hand, an experiment that provides a counterexample can disprove a theory or hypothesis, but a theory can always be salvaged by appropriate ad hoc modifications at the expense of simplicity. 
      An experiment must also control the possible confounding factors—any factors that would mar the accuracy or repeatability of the experiment or the ability to interpret the results. Confounding is commonly eliminated through scientific controls and/or, in randomized experiments, through random assignment. 
      In engineering and the physical sciences, experiments are a primary component of the scientific method. They are used to test theories and hypotheses about how physical processes work under particular conditions (e.g., whether a particular engineering process can produce a desired chemical compound). Typically, experiments in these fields focus on replication of identical procedures in hopes of producing identical results in each replication. Random assignment is uncommon. 
      In medicine and the social sciences, the prevalence of experimental research varies widely across disciplines. When used, however, experiments typically follow the form of the clinical trial, where experimental units (usually individual human beings) are randomly assigned to a treatment or control condition where one or more outcomes are assessed. In contrast to norms in the physical sciences, the focus is typically on the average treatment effect (the difference in outcomes between the treatment and control groups) or another test statistic produced by the experiment. A single study typically does not involve replications of the experiment, but separate studies may be aggregated through systematic review and meta-analysis. 
      There are various differences in experimental practice in each of the branches of science. For example, agricultural research frequently uses randomized experiments (e.g., to test the comparative effectiveness of different fertilizers), while experimental economics often involves experimental tests of theorized human behaviors without relying on random assignment of individuals to treatment and control conditions.  
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of experiments
       
      One of the first methodical approaches to experiments in the modern sense is visible in the works of the Arab mathematician and scholar Ibn al-Haytham. He conducted his experiments in the field of optics—going back to optical and mathematical problems in the works of Ptolemy—by controlling his experiments due to factors such as self-criticality, reliance on visible results of the experiments as well as a criticality in terms of earlier results. He was one of the first scholars to use an inductive-experimental method for achieving results. In his Book of Optics he describes the fundamentally new approach to knowledge and research in an experimental sense: 
      "We should, that is, recommence the inquiry into its principles and premisses, beginning our investigation with an inspection of the things that exist and a survey of the conditions of visible objects. We should distinguish the properties of particulars, and gather by induction what pertains to the eye when vision takes place and what is found in the manner of sensation to be uniform, unchanging, manifest and not subject to doubt. After which we should ascend in our inquiry and reasonings, gradually and orderly, criticizing premisses and exercising caution in regard to conclusions—our aim in all that we make subject to inspection and review being to employ justice, not to follow prejudice, and to take care in all that we judge and criticize that we seek the truth and not to be swayed by opinion. We may in this way eventually come to the truth that gratifies the heart and gradually and carefully reach the end at which certainty appears; while through criticism and caution we may seize the truth that dispels disagreement and resolves doubtful matters. For all that, we are not free from that human turbidity which is in the nature of man; but we must do our best with what we possess of human power. From God we derive support in all things." 
      According to his explanation, a strictly controlled test execution with a sensibility for the subjectivity and susceptibility of outcomes due to the nature of man is necessary. Furthermore, a critical view on the results and outcomes of earlier scholars is necessary:  
      
      
       "It is thus the duty of the man who studies the writings of scientists, if learning the truth is his goal, to make himself an enemy of all that he reads, and, applying his mind to the core and margins of its content, attack it from every side. He should also suspect himself as he performs his critical examination of it, so that he may avoid falling into either prejudice or leniency."
       
      Thus, a comparison of earlier results with the experimental results is necessary for an objective experiment—the visible results being more important. In the end, this may mean that an experimental researcher must find enough courage to discard traditional opinions or results, especially if these results are not experimental but results from a logical/ mental derivation. In this process of critical consideration, the man himself should not forget that he tends to subjective opinions—through "prejudices" and "leniency"—and thus has to be critical about his own way of building hypotheses.  
      Francis Bacon (1561–1626), an English philosopher and scientist active in the 17th century, became an influential supporter of experimental science in the English renaissance. He disagreed with the method of answering scientific questions by deduction—similar to Ibn al-Haytham—and described it as follows: "Having first determined the question according to his will, man then resorts to experience, and bending her to conformity with his placets, leads her about like a captive in a procession." Bacon wanted a method that relied on repeatable observations, or experiments. Notably, he first ordered the scientific method as we understand it today. 
       
      
        There remains simple experience; which, if taken as it comes, is called accident, if sought for, experiment. The true method of experience first lights the candle , and then by means of the candle shows the way ; commencing as it does with experience duly ordered and digested, not bungling or erratic, and from it deducing axioms , and from established axioms again new experiments.: 101 
       
      In the centuries that followed, people who applied the scientific method in different areas made important advances and discoveries. For example, Galileo Galilei (1564–1642) accurately measured time and experimented to make accurate measurements and conclusions about the speed of a falling body. Antoine Lavoisier (1743–1794), a French chemist, used experiment to describe new areas, such as combustion and biochemistry and to develop the theory of conservation of mass (matter). Louis Pasteur (1822–1895) used the scientific method to disprove the prevailing theory of spontaneous generation and to develop the germ theory of disease. Because of the importance of controlling potentially confounding variables, the use of well-designed laboratory experiments is preferred when possible. 
      A considerable amount of progress on the design and analysis of experiments occurred in the early 20th century, with contributions from statisticians such as Ronald Fisher (1890–1962), Jerzy Neyman (1894–1981), Oscar Kempthorne (1919–2000), Gertrude Mary Cox (1900–1978), and William Gemmell Cochran (1909–1980), among others.  
      Types of experiments 
      Experiments might be categorized according to a number of dimensions, depending upon professional norms and standards in different fields of study. 
      In some disciplines (e.g., psychology or political science), a 'true experiment' is a method of social research in which there are two kinds of variables. The independent variable is manipulated by the experimenter, and the dependent variable is measured. The signifying characteristic of a true experiment is that it randomly allocates the subjects to neutralize experimenter bias, and ensures, over a large number of iterations of the experiment, that it controls for all confounding factors. 
      Depending on the discipline, experiments can be conducted to accomplish different but not mutually exclusive goals:  test theories, search for and document phenomena, develop theories, or advise policymakers. These goals also relate differently to validity concerns.  
      Controlled experiments 
      
      
       Main articles: Scientific control and Design of experiments
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Experiment"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (March 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      A controlled experiment often compares the results obtained from experimental samples against control samples, which are practically identical to the experimental sample except for the one aspect whose effect is being tested (the independent variable). A good example would be a drug trial. The sample or group receiving the drug would be the experimental group (treatment group); and the one receiving the placebo or regular treatment would be the control one. In many laboratory experiments it is good practice to have several replicate samples for the test being performed and have both a positive control and a negative control. The results from replicate samples can often be averaged, or if one of the replicates is obviously inconsistent with the results from the other samples, it can be discarded as being the result of an experimental error (some step of the test procedure may have been mistakenly omitted for that sample). Most often, tests are done in duplicate or triplicate. A positive control is a procedure similar to the actual experimental test but is known from previous experience to give a positive result. A negative control is known to give a negative result. The positive control confirms that the basic conditions of the experiment were able to produce a positive result, even if none of the actual experimental samples produce a positive result. The negative control demonstrates the base-line result obtained when a test does not produce a measurable positive result. Most often the value of the negative control is treated as a "background" value to subtract from the test sample results. Sometimes the positive control takes the quadrant of a standard curve. 
      An example that is often used in teaching laboratories is a controlled protein assay. Students might be given a fluid sample containing an unknown (to the student) amount of protein. It is their job to correctly perform a controlled experiment in which they determine the concentration of protein in the fluid sample (usually called the "unknown sample"). The teaching lab would be equipped with a protein standard solution with a known protein concentration. Students could make several positive control samples containing various dilutions of the protein standard. Negative control samples would contain all of the reagents for the protein assay but no protein. In this example, all samples are performed in duplicate. The assay is a colorimetric assay in which a spectrophotometer can measure the amount of protein in samples by detecting a colored complex formed by the interaction of protein molecules and molecules of an added dye. In the illustration, the results for the diluted test samples can be compared to the results of the standard curve (the blue line in the illustration) to estimate the amount of protein in the unknown sample. 
      Controlled experiments can be performed when it is difficult to exactly control all the conditions in an experiment. In this case, the experiment begins by creating two or more sample groups that are probabilistically equivalent, which means that measurements of traits should be similar among the groups and that the groups should respond in the same manner if given the same treatment. This equivalency is determined by statistical methods that take into account the amount of variation between individuals and the number of individuals in each group. In fields such as microbiology and chemistry, where there is very little variation between individuals and the group size is easily in the millions, these statistical methods are often bypassed and simply splitting a solution into equal parts is assumed to produce identical sample groups. 
      Once equivalent groups have been formed, the experimenter tries to treat them identically except for the one variable that he or she wishes to isolate. Human experimentation requires special safeguards against outside variables such as the placebo effect. Such experiments are generally double blind, meaning that neither the volunteer nor the researcher knows which individuals are in the control group or the experimental group until after all of the data have been collected. This ensures that any effects on the volunteer are due to the treatment itself and are not a response to the knowledge that he is being treated. 
      In human experiments, researchers may give a subject (person) a stimulus that the subject responds to. The goal of the experiment is to measure the response to the stimulus by a test method. 
      In the design of experiments, two or more "treatments" are applied to estimate the difference between the mean responses for the treatments. For example, an experiment on baking bread could estimate the difference in the responses associated with quantitative variables, such as the ratio of water to flour, and with qualitative variables, such as strains of yeast. Experimentation is the step in the scientific method that helps people decide between two or more competing explanations—or hypotheses. These hypotheses suggest reasons to explain a phenomenon or predict the results of an action. An example might be the hypothesis that "if I release this ball, it will fall to the floor": this suggestion can then be tested by carrying out the experiment of letting go of the ball, and observing the results. Formally, a hypothesis is compared against its opposite or null hypothesis ("if I release this ball, it will not fall to the floor"). The null hypothesis is that there is no explanation or predictive power of the phenomenon through the reasoning that is being investigated. Once hypotheses are defined, an experiment can be carried out and the results analysed to confirm, refute, or define the accuracy of the hypotheses. 
      Experiments can be also designed to estimate spillover effects onto nearby untreated units.  
      Natural experiments 
      
      
       Main article: Natural experiment
       
      The term "experiment" usually implies a controlled experiment, but sometimes controlled experiments are prohibitively difficult or impossible. In this case researchers resort to natural experiments or quasi-experiments. Natural experiments rely solely on observations of the variables of the system under study, rather than manipulation of just one or a few variables as occurs in controlled experiments. To the degree possible, they attempt to collect data for the system in such a way that contribution from all variables can be determined, and where the effects of variation in certain variables remain approximately constant so that the effects of other variables can be discerned. The degree to which this is possible depends on the observed correlation between explanatory variables in the observed data. When these variables are not well correlated, natural experiments can approach the power of controlled experiments. Usually, however, there is some correlation between these variables, which reduces the reliability of natural experiments relative to what could be concluded if a controlled experiment were performed. Also, because natural experiments usually take place in uncontrolled environments, variables from undetected sources are neither measured nor held constant, and these may produce illusory correlations in variables under study. 
      Much research in several science disciplines, including economics, human geography, archaeology, sociology, cultural anthropology, geology, paleontology, ecology, meteorology, and astronomy, relies on quasi-experiments. For example, in astronomy it is clearly impossible, when testing the hypothesis "Stars are collapsed clouds of hydrogen", to start out with a giant cloud of hydrogen, and then perform the experiment of waiting a few billion years for it to form a star. However, by observing various clouds of hydrogen in various states of collapse, and other implications of the hypothesis (for example, the presence of various spectral emissions from the light of stars), we can collect data we require to support the hypothesis. An early example of this type of experiment was the first verification in the 17th century that light does not travel from place to place instantaneously, but instead has a measurable speed. Observation of the appearance of the moons of Jupiter were slightly delayed when Jupiter was farther from Earth, as opposed to when Jupiter was closer to Earth; and this phenomenon was used to demonstrate that the difference in the time of appearance of the moons was consistent with a measurable speed.  
      Field experiments 
      
      
       Main article: Field experiment
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Experiment"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (March 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Field experiments are so named to distinguish them from laboratory experiments, which enforce scientific control by testing a hypothesis in the artificial and highly controlled setting of a laboratory. Often used in the social sciences, and especially in economic analyses of education and health interventions, field experiments have the advantage that outcomes are observed in a natural setting rather than in a contrived laboratory environment. For this reason, field experiments are sometimes seen as having higher external validity than laboratory experiments. However, like natural experiments, field experiments suffer from the possibility of contamination: experimental conditions can be controlled with more precision and certainty in the lab. Yet some phenomena (e.g., voter turnout in an election) cannot be easily studied in a laboratory.  
      Contrast with observational study 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The black box model for observation (input and output are observables). When there are a feedback with some observer's control, as illustrated, the observation is also an experiment.
        
       
       
      An observational study is used when it is impractical, unethical, cost-prohibitive (or otherwise inefficient) to fit a physical or social system into a laboratory setting, to completely control confounding factors, or to apply random assignment. It can also be used when confounding factors are either limited or known well enough to analyze the data in light of them (though this may be rare when social phenomena are under examination). For an observational science to be valid, the experimenter must know and account for confounding factors. In these situations, observational studies have value because they often suggest hypotheses that can be tested with randomized experiments or by collecting fresh data. 
      Fundamentally, however, observational studies are not experiments. By definition, observational studies lack the manipulation required for Baconian experiments. In addition, observational studies (e.g., in biological or social systems) often involve variables that are difficult to quantify or control. Observational studies are limited because they lack the statistical properties of randomized experiments. In a randomized experiment, the method of randomization specified in the experimental protocol guides the statistical analysis, which is usually specified also by the experimental protocol. Without a statistical model that reflects an objective randomization, the statistical analysis relies on a subjective model. Inferences from subjective models are unreliable in theory and practice. In fact, there are several cases where carefully conducted observational studies consistently give wrong results, that is, where the results of the observational studies are inconsistent and also differ from the results of experiments. For example, epidemiological studies of colon cancer consistently show beneficial correlations with broccoli consumption, while experiments find no benefit. 
      A particular problem with observational studies involving human subjects is the great difficulty attaining fair comparisons between treatments (or exposures), because such studies are prone to selection bias, and groups receiving different treatments (exposures) may differ greatly according to their covariates (age, height, weight, medications, exercise, nutritional status, ethnicity, family medical history, etc.). In contrast, randomization implies that for each covariate, the mean for each group is expected to be the same. For any randomized trial, some variation from the mean is expected, of course, but the randomization ensures that the experimental groups have mean values that are close, due to the central limit theorem and Markov's inequality. With inadequate randomization or low sample size, the systematic variation in covariates between the treatment groups (or exposure groups) makes it difficult to separate the effect of the treatment (exposure) from the effects of the other covariates, most of which have not been measured. The mathematical models used to analyze such data must consider each differing covariate (if measured), and results are not meaningful if a covariate is neither randomized nor included in the model. 
      To avoid conditions that render an experiment far less useful, physicians conducting medical trials—say for U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval—quantify and randomize the covariates that can be identified. Researchers attempt to reduce the biases of observational studies with matching methods such as propensity score matching, which require large populations of subjects and extensive information on covariates. However, propensity score matching is no longer recommended as a technique because it can increase, rather than decrease, bias. Outcomes are also quantified when possible (bone density, the amount of some cell or substance in the blood, physical strength or endurance, etc.) and not based on a subject's or a professional observer's opinion. In this way, the design of an observational study can render the results more objective and therefore, more convincing.  
      Ethics 
      
      
       Main article: Research ethics
       
      By placing the distribution of the independent variable(s) under the control of the researcher, an experiment—particularly when it involves human subjects—introduces potential ethical considerations, such as balancing benefit and harm, fairly distributing interventions (e.g., treatments for a disease), and informed consent. For example, in psychology or health care, it is unethical to provide a substandard treatment to patients. Therefore, ethical review boards are supposed to stop clinical trials and other experiments unless a new treatment is believed to offer benefits as good as current best practice. It is also generally unethical (and often illegal) to conduct randomized experiments on the effects of substandard or harmful treatments, such as the effects of ingesting arsenic on human health. To understand the effects of such exposures, scientists sometimes use observational studies to understand the effects of those factors. 
      Even when experimental research does not directly involve human subjects, it may still present ethical concerns. For example, the nuclear bomb experiments conducted by the Manhattan Project implied the use of nuclear reactions to harm human beings even though the experiments did not directly involve any human subjects.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Allegiance bias 
        Black box experimentation 
        Concept development and experimentation 
        Design of experiments 
        Experimentum crucis 
        Experimental physics 
        Empirical research 
        List of experiments 
        Long-term experiment
        
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Stohr-Hunt, Patricia (1996). "An Analysis of Frequency of Hands-on Experience and Science Achievement". Journal of Research in Science Teaching. 33 (1): 101–109. Bibcode:1996JRScT..33..101S. doi:10.1002/(SICI)1098-2736(199601)33:1&lt;101::AID-TEA6&gt;3.0.CO;2-Z.  
         ^ 
           Cooperstock, Fred I. (2009). General Relativistic Dynamics: Extending Einstein's Legacy Throughout the Universe (Online-Ausg.&nbsp;ed.). Singapore: World Scientific. p.&nbsp;12. ISBN&nbsp;978-981-4271-16-5.  
         ^ a b 
           Griffith, W. Thomas (2001). The physics of everyday phenomena&nbsp;: a conceptual introduction to physics (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Boston: McGraw-Hill. pp.&nbsp;3–4. ISBN&nbsp;0-07-232837-1.  
         ^ 
           Wilczek, Frank; Devine, Betsy (2006). Fantastic realities&nbsp;: 49 mind journeys and a trip to Stockholm. New Jersey: World Scientific. pp.&nbsp;61–62. ISBN&nbsp;978-981-256-649-2.  
         ^ 
           Holland, Paul W. (December 1986). "Statistics and Causal Inference". Journal of the American Statistical Association. 81 (396): 945–960. doi:10.2307/2289064. JSTOR&nbsp;2289064.  
         ^ 
           Druckman, James N.; Greene, Donald P.; Kuklinski, James H.; Lupia, Arthur, eds. (2011). Cambridge handbook of experimental political science. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0521174558.  
         ^ 
           El-Bizri, Nader (2005). "A Philosophical Perspective on Alhazen's Optics". Arabic Sciences and Philosophy (Cambridge University Press). 15 (2): 189–218. doi:10.1017/S0957423905000172. S2CID&nbsp;123057532.  
         ^ 
           Ibn al-Haytham, Abu Ali Al-Hasan. Optics. p.&nbsp;5.  
         ^ 
           Ibn al-Haytham, Abu Ali Al-Hasan. Dubitationes in Ptolemaeum. p.&nbsp;3.  
         ^ "Having first determined the question according to his will, man then resorts to experience, and bending her to conformity with his placets, leads her about like a captive in a procession." Bacon, Francis. Novum Organum, i, 63. Quoted in Durant 2012, p.&nbsp;170.  
         ^ 
           Durant, Will (2012). The story of philosophy&nbsp;: the lives and opinions of the great philosophers of the western world (2nd&nbsp;ed.). New York: Simon and Schuster. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-671-69500-2.  
         ^ 
           Bell, Madison Smartt (2005). Lavoisier in the Year One: The Birth of a New Science in an Age of Revolution. W.W. Norton &amp; Company. ISBN&nbsp;978-0393051551.  
         ^ 
           Brock, Thomas D, ed. (1988). Pasteur and Modern Science (New illustrated&nbsp;ed.). Springer. ISBN&nbsp;978-3540501015.  
         ^ 
           "Types of experiments". Department of Psychology, University of California Davis. Archived from the original on 19 December 2014.  
         ^ 
           Lin, Hause; Werner, Kaitlyn M.; Inzlicht, Michael (2021-02-16). "Promises and Perils of Experimentation: The Mutual-Internal-Validity Problem". Perspectives on Psychological Science. 16 (4): 854–863. doi:10.1177/1745691620974773. ISSN&nbsp;1745-6916. PMID&nbsp;33593177. S2CID&nbsp;231877717.  
         ^ Dunning 2012  
         ^ a b 
           Hinkelmann, Klaus and Kempthorne, Oscar (2008). Design and Analysis of Experiments, Volume I: Introduction to Experimental Design (Second&nbsp;ed.). Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-471-72756-9.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Freedman, David; Pisani, Robert; Purves, Roger (2007). Statistics (4th&nbsp;ed.). New York: Norton. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-393-92972-0.  
         ^ 
           Freedman, David A. (2009). Statistical models&nbsp;: theory and practice (Revised&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-74385-3.  
         ^ 
           King, Gary; Nielsen, Richard (October 2019). "Why Propensity Scores Should Not Be Used for Matching". Political Analysis. 27 (4): 435–454. doi:10.1017/pan.2019.11. hdl:1721.1/128459. ISSN&nbsp;1047-1987.  
         ^ 
           Bailey, R.A. (2008). Design of comparative experiments. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0521683579.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Dunning, Thad (2012). Natural experiments in the social sciences&nbsp;: a design-based approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1107698000. 
       
        Shadish, William R.; Cook, Thomas D.; Campbell, Donald T. (2002). Experimental and quasi-experimental designs for generalized causal inference (Nachdr.&nbsp;ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin. ISBN&nbsp;0-395-61556-9. (Excerpts) 
       
        Jeremy, Teigen (2014). "Experimental Methods in Military and Veteran Studies". In Soeters, Joseph; Shields, Patricia; Rietjens, Sebastiaan (eds.). Routledge Handbook of Research Methods in Military Studies. New York: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;228–238.
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Experiment 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library
           
        
       
       
      
        Media related to Experiments at Wikimedia Commons 
       Lessons In Electric Circuits – Volume VI – Experiments 
       Experiment in Physics from Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design of experiments
           
         
         
          Scientificmethod
          
            
            
             Scientific experiment 
             Statistical design 
             Control 
             Internal and external validity 
             Experimental unit 
             Blinding
             
            
             Optimal design: Bayesian 
             Random assignment 
             Randomization 
             Restricted randomization 
             Replication versus subsampling 
             Sample size
             
           
         
         
          Treatment and blocking
          
            
            
             Treatment 
             Effect size 
             Contrast 
             Interaction 
             Confounding 
             Orthogonality 
             Blocking 
             Covariate 
             Nuisance variable
             
           
         
         
          Models  and inference
          
            
            
             Linear regression 
             Ordinary least squares 
             Bayesian
             
            
             Random effect 
             Mixed model 
             Hierarchical model: Bayesian
             
            
             Analysis of variance (Anova) 
             Cochran's theorem 
             Manova (multivariate) 
             Ancova (covariance)
             
            
             Compare means 
             Multiple comparison
             
           
         
         
          Designs  Completelyrandomized
          
            
            
             Factorial 
             Fractional factorial 
             Plackett-Burman 
             Taguchi
             
            
             Response surface methodology 
             Polynomial and rational modeling 
             Box-Behnken 
             Central composite
             
            
             Block 
             Generalized randomized block design (GRBD) 
             Latin square 
             Graeco-Latin square 
             Orthogonal array 
             Latin hypercube  Repeated measures design 
             Crossover study
             
            
             Randomized controlled trial 
             Sequential analysis 
             Sequential probability ratio test
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Glossary 
             Category 
             &nbsp;Mathematics portal 
             Statistical outline 
             Statistical topics
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Statistics
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Descriptive statistics
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Continuous data
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Center
                      
                        
                        
                         Mean 
                          
                           arithmetic 
                           geometric 
                           harmonic 
                           cubic 
                           generalized/power
                           
                         Median 
                         Mode
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Dispersion
                      
                        
                        
                         Variance 
                         Standard deviation 
                         Average absolute deviation 
                         Coefficient of variation 
                         Percentile 
                         Range 
                         Interquartile range
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Shape
                      
                        
                        
                         Central limit theorem 
                         Moments 
                          
                           Skewness 
                           Kurtosis 
                           L-moments
                          
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Count data
                  
                    
                    
                     Index of dispersion
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Summary tables
                  
                    
                    
                     Grouped data 
                     Frequency distribution 
                     Contingency table
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Dependence
                  
                    
                    
                     Pearson product-moment correlation 
                     Rank correlation 
                      
                       Spearman's ρ 
                       Kendall's τ
                       
                     Partial correlation 
                     Scatter plot
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Graphics
                  
                    
                    
                     Bar chart 
                     Biplot 
                     Box plot 
                     Control chart 
                     Correlogram 
                     Fan chart 
                     Forest plot 
                     Histogram 
                     Pie chart 
                     Q–Q plot 
                     Run chart 
                     Scatter plot 
                     Stem-and-leaf display 
                     Radar chart 
                     Violin plot
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Data collection
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Study design
                  
                    
                    
                     Population 
                     Statistic 
                     Effect size 
                     Statistical power 
                     Optimal design 
                     Sample size determination 
                     Replication 
                     Missing data
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Survey methodology
                  
                    
                    
                     Sampling 
                      
                       stratified 
                       cluster
                       
                     Standard error 
                     Opinion poll 
                     Questionnaire
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Controlled experiments
                  
                    
                    
                     Scientific control 
                     Randomized experiment 
                     Randomized controlled trial 
                     Random assignment 
                     Blocking 
                     Interaction 
                     Factorial experiment
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Adaptive Designs
                  
                    
                    
                     Adaptive clinical trial 
                     Up-and-Down Designs 
                     Stochastic approximation
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Observational Studies
                  
                    
                    
                     Cross-sectional study 
                     Cohort study 
                     Natural experiment 
                     Quasi-experiment
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Statistical inference
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Statistical theory
                  
                    
                    
                     Population 
                     Statistic 
                     Probability distribution 
                     Sampling distribution 
                      
                       Order statistic
                       
                     Empirical distribution 
                      
                       Density estimation
                       
                     Statistical model 
                      
                       Model specification 
                       Lp space
                       
                     Parameter 
                      
                       location 
                       scale 
                       shape
                       
                     Parametric family 
                      
                       Likelihood&nbsp;(monotone) 
                       Location–scale family 
                       Exponential family
                       
                     Completeness 
                     Sufficiency 
                     Statistical functional 
                      
                       Bootstrap 
                       U 
                       V
                       
                     Optimal decision 
                      
                       loss function
                       
                     Efficiency 
                     Statistical distance 
                      
                       divergence
                       
                     Asymptotics 
                     Robustness
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Frequentist inference
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Point estimation
                      
                        
                        
                         Estimating equations 
                          
                           Maximum likelihood 
                           Method of moments 
                           M-estimator 
                           Minimum distance
                           
                         Unbiased estimators 
                          
                           Mean-unbiased minimum-variance 
                            
                             Rao–Blackwellization 
                             Lehmann–Scheffé theorem
                             
                           Median unbiased
                           
                         Plug-in
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Interval estimation
                      
                        
                        
                         Confidence interval 
                         Pivot 
                         Likelihood interval 
                         Prediction interval 
                         Tolerance interval 
                         Resampling 
                          
                           Bootstrap 
                           Jackknife
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Testing hypotheses
                      
                        
                        
                         1- &amp; 2-tails 
                         Power 
                          
                           Uniformly most powerful test
                           
                         Permutation test 
                          
                           Randomization test
                           
                         Multiple comparisons
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Parametric tests
                      
                        
                        
                         Likelihood-ratio 
                         Score/Lagrange multiplier 
                         Wald
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Specific tests
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      
                        
                        
                         Z-test (normal) 
                         Student's t-test 
                         F-test
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Goodness of fit
                      
                        
                        
                         Chi-squared 
                         G-test 
                         Kolmogorov–Smirnov 
                         Anderson–Darling 
                         Lilliefors 
                         Jarque–Bera 
                         Normality (Shapiro–Wilk) 
                         Likelihood-ratio test 
                         Model selection 
                          
                           Cross validation 
                           AIC 
                           BIC
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Rank statistics
                      
                        
                        
                         Sign 
                          
                           Sample median
                           
                         Signed rank (Wilcoxon) 
                          
                           Hodges–Lehmann estimator
                           
                         Rank sum (Mann–Whitney) 
                         Nonparametric anova 
                          
                           1-way (Kruskal–Wallis) 
                           2-way (Friedman) 
                           Ordered alternative (Jonckheere–Terpstra)
                          
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Bayesian inference
                  
                    
                    
                     Bayesian probability 
                      
                       prior 
                       posterior
                       
                     Credible interval 
                     Bayes factor 
                     Bayesian estimator 
                      
                       Maximum posterior estimator
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Correlation
                  Regression analysis
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Correlation
                  
                    
                    
                     Pearson product-moment 
                     Partial correlation 
                     Confounding variable 
                     Coefficient of determination
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Regression analysis
                  
                    
                    
                     Errors and residuals 
                     Regression validation 
                     Mixed effects models 
                     Simultaneous equations models 
                     Multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS)
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Linear regression
                  
                    
                    
                     Simple linear regression 
                     Ordinary least squares 
                     General linear model 
                     Bayesian regression
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Non-standard predictors
                  
                    
                    
                     Nonlinear regression 
                     Nonparametric 
                     Semiparametric 
                     Isotonic 
                     Robust 
                     Heteroscedasticity 
                     Homoscedasticity
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Generalized linear model
                  
                    
                    
                     Exponential families 
                     Logistic (Bernoulli)&nbsp;/ Binomial&nbsp;/ Poisson regressions
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Partition of variance
                  
                    
                    
                     Analysis of variance (ANOVA, anova) 
                     Analysis of covariance 
                     Multivariate ANOVA 
                     Degrees of freedom
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Categorical&nbsp;/ Multivariate&nbsp;/ Time-series&nbsp;/ Survival analysis
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Categorical
                  
                    
                    
                     Cohen's kappa 
                     Contingency table 
                     Graphical model 
                     Log-linear model 
                     McNemar's test 
                     Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistics
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Multivariate
                  
                    
                    
                     Regression 
                     Manova 
                     Principal components 
                     Canonical correlation 
                     Discriminant analysis 
                     Cluster analysis 
                     Classification 
                     Structural equation model 
                      
                       Factor analysis
                       
                     Multivariate distributions 
                      
                       Elliptical distributions 
                        
                         Normal
                        
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Time-series
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      General
                      
                        
                        
                         Decomposition 
                         Trend 
                         Stationarity 
                         Seasonal adjustment 
                         Exponential smoothing 
                         Cointegration 
                         Structural break 
                         Granger causality
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Specific tests
                      
                        
                        
                         Dickey–Fuller 
                         Johansen 
                         Q-statistic (Ljung–Box) 
                         Durbin–Watson 
                         Breusch–Godfrey
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Time domain
                      
                        
                        
                         Autocorrelation (ACF) 
                          
                           partial (PACF)
                           
                         Cross-correlation (XCF) 
                         ARMA model 
                         ARIMA model (Box–Jenkins) 
                         Autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (ARCH) 
                         Vector autoregression (VAR)
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Frequency domain
                      
                        
                        
                         Spectral density estimation 
                         Fourier analysis 
                         Wavelet 
                         Whittle likelihood
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Survival
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Survival function
                      
                        
                        
                         Kaplan–Meier estimator (product limit) 
                         Proportional hazards models 
                         Accelerated failure time (AFT) model 
                         First hitting time
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Hazard function
                      
                        
                        
                         Nelson–Aalen estimator
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Test
                      
                        
                        
                         Log-rank test
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Applications
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Biostatistics
                  
                    
                    
                     Bioinformatics 
                     Clinical trials&nbsp;/ studies 
                     Epidemiology 
                     Medical statistics
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Engineering statistics
                  
                    
                    
                     Chemometrics 
                     Methods engineering 
                     Probabilistic design 
                     Process&nbsp;/ quality control 
                     Reliability 
                     System identification
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Social statistics
                  
                    
                    
                     Actuarial science 
                     Census 
                     Crime statistics 
                     Demography 
                     Econometrics 
                     Jurimetrics 
                     National accounts 
                     Official statistics 
                     Population statistics 
                     Psychometrics
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Spatial statistics
                  
                    
                    
                     Cartography 
                     Environmental statistics 
                     Geographic information system 
                     Geostatistics 
                     Kriging
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             &nbsp;Mathematics portal 
             Commons 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Experiment&amp;oldid=1061912179"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Experiments
       Research
       Design of experiments
       Science experiments
       Causal inference
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2018
       Articles needing additional references from March 2019
       All articles needing additional references
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       粵語
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 December 2021, at 20:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
