
 
  
   
  Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       German mathematician and philosopher (1646–1716)
       
      
      
       "Leibniz" redirects here. For other uses, see Leibniz (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
          
        
        
         
          
           Portrait by Christoph Bernhard Francke, 1695
          
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
          1 July 1646
          
           Leipzig, Electorate of Saxony, Holy Roman Empire
          
        
        
         Died
         14 November 1716(1716-11-14) (aged&nbsp;70)
          
           Hanover, Electorate of Hanover, Holy Roman Empire
          
        
        
         Education
         
           
           
            Alte Nikolaischule&nbsp;(1655–1661) 
            Leipzig University (1661–1666: 
             
              B.A. in philosophy, December 1662 
              M.A. in philosophy, February 1664 
              LL.B., September 1665 
              Dr. phil. hab., March 1666)
              
            University of Jena(summer school, 1663) 
            University of Altdorf(Dr. jur., November 1666)
            
          
        
        
         
          
        
        
         Era
         17th-/18th-century philosophy
        
        
         Region
         Western philosophy
        
        
         School
         
          
           
            Rationalism
            Pluralistic idealism
            Foundationalism
            Conceptualism
            Optimism
            Indirect realism
            Correspondence theory of truth
            Relationism
           
          
        
        
         Theses
         
           
           
            De Arte Combinatoria (On the Combinatorial Art)&nbsp;(March 1666) 
            Disputatio Inauguralis de Casibus Perplexis in Jure (Inaugural Disputation on Ambiguous Legal Cases)&nbsp;(November 1666)
            
          
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Bartholomäus Leonhard von Schwendendörffer&nbsp; (Dr. jur. thesis advisor)
        
        
         Other&nbsp;academic advisors
         
           
           
            Erhard Weigel (Jena) 
            Jakob Thomasius (B.A. advisor) 
            Christiaan Huygens
            
          
        
        
         Notable students
         
          
           
            Jacob Bernoulli (epistolary correspondent)
            Christian Wolff (epistolary correspondent)
           
          
        
        
         
          
           Main interests
          
         Mathematics, physics, geology, medicine, biology, embryology, epidemiology, veterinary medicine, paleontology, psychology, engineering, linguistics, philology, sociology, metaphysics, ethics, economics, diplomacy, history, politics, music theory, poetry, logic, theodicy, universal language, universal science
        
        
         
          
           Notable ideas
          
         
           
           
            
             &nbsp;
            
            
           
            Algebraic logic
            Binary code
            Calculus
            Differential equations
            Mathesis universalis
            Monads
            Best of all possible worlds
            Pre-established harmony
            Identity of indiscernibles
            Mathematical matrix
            Mathematical function
            Newton–Leibniz axiom
            Leibniz's notation
            Leibniz integral rule
            Integral symbol
            Leibniz harmonic triangle
            Leibniz's test
            Leibniz formula for π
            Leibniz formula for determinants
            Fractional derivative
            Chain rule
            Quotient rule
            Product rule
            Leibniz wheel
            Leibniz's gap
            Algebra of concepts
            Vis viva (principle of conservation of energy)
            Principle of least action
            Salva veritate
            Stepped reckoner
            Symbolic logic/Boolean algebra
            Semiotics
            Analysis situs
            Principle of sufficient reason
            Law of continuity
            Transcendental law of homogeneity
            Ars combinatoria (alphabet of human thought)
            Characteristica universalis
            Calculus ratiocinator
            Compossibility
            Partial fraction decomposition
            Protogaea
            Problem of why there is anything at all
            Pluralistic idealism
            Metaphysical dynamism
            Relationism
            Apperception
            A priori/a posteriori distinction
            Deontic logic
            Well-founded phenomenon 
            
          
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influences
            
            
           
            
             
              Scholasticism, Aristotle, Archimedes, Euclid, Apollonius of Perga, Plato, Suárez, Hugo Grotius, Ramon Llull, Confucius, Anne Conway, Descartes, Hobbes, Malebranche, Spinoza, Bossuet, Pascal
             
            
          
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influenced
            
            
           
            
             
              Berkeley, Platner, Voltaire, Hume, Wolff, Kant, Wiener, Riemann, Gibbon, Gauss, Lagrange, Euler, Boole, Newman, Peirce, Frege, Russell, Rousseau, Gödel, Tarski, Mandelbrot, Blondel, Heidegger, Deleuze, Wundt, Rescher, Rauschenbusch
             
            
          
        
        
          
        
        
         Signature
        
        
         
        
       
       
      Gottfried Wilhelm (von) Leibniz (1 July 1646  – 14 November 1716) was a German polymath active as a mathematician, philosopher, scientist, and diplomat. He is a prominent figure in both the history of philosophy and the history of mathematics. He wrote works on philosophy, theology, ethics, politics, law, history, and philology. Leibniz also made major contributions to physics and technology, and anticipated notions that surfaced much later in probability theory, biology, medicine, geology, psychology, linguistics, and computer science. In addition he contributed to the field of library science: while serving as overseer of the Wolfenbüttel library in Germany, he devised a cataloging system that would have served as a guide for many of Europe's largest libraries. Leibniz's contributions to this vast array of subjects were scattered in various learned journals, in tens of thousands of letters, and in unpublished manuscripts. He wrote in several languages, primarily in Latin, French and German, but also in English, Italian and Dutch. 
      As a philosopher, he was one of the greatest representatives of 17th-century rationalism and idealism. As a mathematician, his greatest achievement was the development of the main ideas of differential and integral calculus, independently of Isaac Newton's contemporaneous developments. Mathematical works have consistently favored Leibniz's notation as the conventional expression of calculus. 
      However, it was only in the 20th century that Leibniz's law of continuity and transcendental law of homogeneity found a consistent mathematical formulation by means of non-standard analysis. He was also a pioneer in the field of mechanical calculators. While working on adding automatic multiplication and division to Pascal's calculator, he was the first to describe a pinwheel calculator in 1685 and invented the Leibniz wheel, used in the arithmometer, the first mass-produced mechanical calculator. He also refined the binary number system, which is the foundation of nearly all digital (electronic, solid-state, discrete logic) computers, including the Von Neumann architecture, which is the standard design paradigm, or "computer architecture", followed from the second half of the 20th century, and into the 21st. Leibniz has been called the "founder of computer science". 
      In philosophy and theology, Leibniz is most noted for his optimism, i.e. his conclusion that our world is, in a qualified sense, the best possible world that God could have created, a view sometimes lampooned by other thinkers, such as Voltaire in his satirical novella Candide. Leibniz, along with René Descartes and Baruch Spinoza, was one of the three great early modern rationalists. His philosophy also assimilates elements of the scholastic tradition, notably the assumption that some substantive knowledge of reality can be achieved by reasoning from first principles or prior definitions. The work of Leibniz anticipated modern logic and still influences contemporary analytic philosophy, such as its adopted use of the term "possible world" to define modal notions.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
          
          1.1 Early life 
          1.2 1666–1676 
          1.3 House of Hanover, 1676–1716 
          1.4 Death 
          1.5 Personal life 
           
        2 Philosopher 
          
          2.1 Principles 
          2.2 Monads 
          2.3 Theodicy and optimism 
          2.4 Discourse on Metaphysics 
          2.5 Fundamental question of metaphysics 
          2.6 Symbolic thought 
          2.7 Formal logic 
           
        3 Mathematician 
          
          3.1 Linear systems 
          3.2 Geometry 
          3.3 Calculus 
          3.4 Topology 
           
        4 Scientist and engineer 
          
          4.1 Physics 
            
            4.1.1 The vis viva 
             
          4.2 Other natural science 
          4.3 Psychology 
          4.4 Social science 
          4.5 Technology 
            
            4.5.1 Computation 
             
          4.6 Librarian 
          4.7 Advocate of scientific societies 
           
        5 Lawyer and moralist 
          
          5.1 Ecumenism 
           
        6 Philologist 
        7 Sinophile 
        8 Polymath 
        9 Posthumous reputation 
          
          9.1 Cultural references 
           
        10 Writings and publication 
          
          10.1 Selected works 
            
            10.1.1 Posthumous works 
             
          10.2 Collections 
           
        11 See also 
        12 Notes 
        13 References 
          
          13.1 Citations 
          13.2 Sources 
            
            13.2.1 Bibliographies 
            13.2.2 Primary literature (chronologically) 
            13.2.3 Secondary literature up to 1950 
            13.2.4 Secondary literature post-1950 
             
           
        14 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Early life 
      Gottfried Leibniz was born on 1 July 1646, toward the end of the Thirty Years' War, in Leipzig, Saxony, to Friedrich Leibniz and Catharina Schmuck. Friedrich noted in his family journal:  
      
      
       21. Juny am Sontag 1646 Ist mein Sohn Gottfried Wilhelm, post sextam vespertinam 1/4 uff 7 uhr abents zur welt gebohren, im Wassermann.
       
      In English:  
      
      
       On Sunday 21 June  1646, my son Gottfried Wilhelm was born into the world a quarter before seven in the evening, in Aquarius.
       
      Leibniz was baptized on 3 July of that year at St. Nicholas Church, Leipzig; his godfather was the Lutheran theologian Martin Geier&nbsp;. His father died when he was six years old, and from that point on, Leibniz was raised by his mother. 
      Leibniz's father had been a Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Leipzig, and the boy later inherited his father's personal library. He was given free access to it from the age of seven. While Leibniz's schoolwork was largely confined to the study of a small canon of authorities, his father's library enabled him to study a wide variety of advanced philosophical and theological works—ones that he would not have otherwise been able to read until his college years. Access to his father's library, largely written in Latin, also led to his proficiency in the Latin language, which he achieved by the age of 12. At the age of 13 he composed 300 hexameters of Latin verse in a single morning for a special event at school. 
      In April 1661 he enrolled in his father's former university at age 14, and completed his bachelor's degree in Philosophy in December 1662. He defended his Disputatio Metaphysica de Principio Individui (Metaphysical Disputation on the Principle of Individuation), which addressed the principle of individuation, on 9 June 1663. Leibniz earned his master's degree in Philosophy on 7 February 1664. In December 1664 he published and defended a dissertation Specimen Quaestionum Philosophicarum ex Jure collectarum (An Essay of Collected Philosophical Problems of Right), arguing for both a theoretical and a pedagogical relationship between philosophy and law. After one year of legal studies, he was awarded his bachelor's degree in Law on 28 September 1665. His dissertation was titled De conditionibus (On Conditions). 
      In early 1666, at age 19, Leibniz wrote his first book, De Arte Combinatoria (On the Combinatorial Art), the first part of which was also his habilitation thesis in Philosophy, which he defended in March 1666. De Arte Combinatoria was inspired by Ramon Llull's Ars Magna and contained a proof of the existence of God, cast in geometrical form, and based on the argument from motion. 
      His next goal was to earn his license and Doctorate in Law, which normally required three years of study. In 1666, the University of Leipzig turned down Leibniz's doctoral application and refused to grant him a Doctorate in Law, most likely due to his relative youth. Leibniz subsequently left Leipzig. 
      Leibniz then enrolled in the University of Altdorf and quickly submitted a thesis, which he had probably been working on earlier in Leipzig. The title of his thesis was Disputatio Inauguralis de Casibus Perplexis in Jure (Inaugural Disputation on Ambiguous Legal Cases). Leibniz earned his license to practice law and his Doctorate in Law in November 1666. He next declined the offer of an academic appointment at Altdorf, saying that "my thoughts were turned in an entirely different direction". 
      As an adult, Leibniz often introduced himself as "Gottfried von Leibniz". Many posthumously published editions of his writings presented his name on the title page as "Freiherr G. W. von Leibniz." However, no document has ever been found from any contemporary government that stated his appointment to any form of nobility.  
      1666–1676 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Engraving of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
        
       
      
      Leibniz's first position was as a salaried secretary to an alchemical society in Nuremberg. He knew fairly little about the subject at that time but presented himself as deeply learned. He soon met Johann Christian von Boyneburg (1622–1672), the dismissed chief minister of the Elector of Mainz, Johann Philipp von Schönborn. Von Boyneburg hired Leibniz as an assistant, and shortly thereafter reconciled with the Elector and introduced Leibniz to him. Leibniz then dedicated an essay on law to the Elector in the hope of obtaining employment. The stratagem worked; the Elector asked Leibniz to assist with the redrafting of the legal code for the Electorate. In 1669, Leibniz was appointed assessor in the Court of Appeal. Although von Boyneburg died late in 1672, Leibniz remained under the employment of his widow until she dismissed him in 1674. 
      Von Boyneburg did much to promote Leibniz's reputation, and the latter's memoranda and letters began to attract favorable notice. After Leibniz's service to the Elector there soon followed a diplomatic role. He published an essay, under the pseudonym of a fictitious Polish nobleman, arguing (unsuccessfully) for the German candidate for the Polish crown. The main force in European geopolitics during Leibniz's adult life was the ambition of Louis XIV of France, backed by French military and economic might. Meanwhile, the Thirty Years' War had left German-speaking Europe exhausted, fragmented, and economically backward. Leibniz proposed to protect German-speaking Europe by distracting Louis as follows. France would be invited to take Egypt as a stepping stone towards an eventual conquest of the Dutch East Indies. In return, France would agree to leave Germany and the Netherlands undisturbed. This plan obtained the Elector's cautious support. In 1672, the French government invited Leibniz to Paris for discussion, but the plan was soon overtaken by the outbreak of the Franco-Dutch War and became irrelevant. Napoleon's failed invasion of Egypt in 1798 can be seen as an unwitting, late implementation of Leibniz's plan, after the Eastern hemisphere colonial supremacy in Europe had already passed from the Dutch to the British. 
      Thus Leibniz went to Paris in 1672. Soon after arriving, he met Dutch physicist and mathematician Christiaan Huygens and realised that his own knowledge of mathematics and physics was patchy. With Huygens as his mentor, he began a program of self-study that soon pushed him to making major contributions to both subjects, including discovering his version of the differential and integral calculus. He met Nicolas Malebranche and Antoine Arnauld, the leading French philosophers of the day, and studied the writings of Descartes and Pascal, unpublished as well as published. He befriended a German mathematician, Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus; they corresponded for the rest of their lives.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Stepped reckoner
        
       
       
      When it became clear that France would not implement its part of Leibniz's Egyptian plan, the Elector sent his nephew, escorted by Leibniz, on a related mission to the English government in London, early in 1673. There Leibniz came into acquaintance of Henry Oldenburg and John Collins. He met with the Royal Society where he demonstrated a calculating machine that he had designed and had been building since 1670. The machine was able to execute all four basic operations (adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing), and the society quickly made him an external member. 
      The mission ended abruptly when news of the Elector's death (12 February 1673) reached them. Leibniz promptly returned to Paris and not, as had been planned, to Mainz. The sudden deaths of his two patrons in the same winter meant that Leibniz had to find a new basis for his career. 
      In this regard, a 1669 invitation from Duke John Frederick of Brunswick to visit Hanover proved to have been fateful. Leibniz had declined the invitation, but had begun corresponding with the duke in 1671. In 1673, the duke offered Leibniz the post of counsellor. Leibniz very reluctantly accepted the position two years later, only after it became clear that no employment was forthcoming in Paris, whose intellectual stimulation he relished, or with the Habsburg imperial court. 
      In 1675 he tried to get admitted to the French Academy of Sciences as a foreign honorary member, but it was considered that there were already enough foreigners there and so no invitation came. He left Paris in October 1676.  
      House of Hanover, 1676–1716 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Leibniz managed to delay his arrival in Hanover until the end of 1676 after making one more short journey to London, where Newton accused him of having seen his unpublished work on calculus in advance. This was alleged to be evidence supporting the accusation, made decades later, that he had stolen calculus from Newton. On the journey from London to Hanover, Leibniz stopped in The Hague where he met van Leeuwenhoek, the discoverer of microorganisms. He also spent several days in intense discussion with Spinoza, who had just completed his masterwork, the Ethics. 
      In 1677, he was promoted, at his request, to Privy Counselor of Justice, a post he held for the rest of his life. Leibniz served three consecutive rulers of the House of Brunswick as historian, political adviser, and most consequentially, as librarian of the ducal library. He thenceforth employed his pen on all the various political, historical, and theological matters involving the House of Brunswick; the resulting documents form a valuable part of the historical record for the period. 
      Leibniz began promoting a project to use windmills to improve the mining operations in the Harz Mountains. This project did little to improve mining operations and was shut down by Duke Ernst August in 1685. 
      Among the few people in north Germany to accept Leibniz were the Electress Sophia of Hanover (1630–1714), her daughter Sophia Charlotte of Hanover (1668–1705), the Queen of Prussia and his avowed disciple, and Caroline of Ansbach, the consort of her grandson, the future George II. To each of these women he was correspondent, adviser, and friend. In turn, they all approved of Leibniz more than did their spouses and the future king George I of Great Britain. 
      The population of Hanover was only about 10,000, and its provinciality eventually grated on Leibniz. Nevertheless, to be a major courtier to the House of Brunswick was quite an honor, especially in light of the meteoric rise in the prestige of that House during Leibniz's association with it. In 1692, the Duke of Brunswick became a hereditary Elector of the Holy Roman Empire. The British Act of Settlement 1701 designated the Electress Sophia and her descent as the royal family of England, once both King William III and his sister-in-law and successor, Queen Anne, were dead. Leibniz played a role in the initiatives and negotiations leading up to that Act, but not always an effective one. For example, something he published anonymously in England, thinking to promote the Brunswick cause, was formally censured by the British Parliament. 
      The Brunswicks tolerated the enormous effort Leibniz devoted to intellectual pursuits unrelated to his duties as a courtier, pursuits such as perfecting calculus, writing about other mathematics, logic, physics, and philosophy, and keeping up a vast correspondence. He began working on calculus in 1674; the earliest evidence of its use in his surviving notebooks is 1675. By 1677 he had a coherent system in hand, but did not publish it until 1684. Leibniz's most important mathematical papers were published between 1682 and 1692, usually in a journal which he and Otto Mencke founded in 1682, the Acta Eruditorum. That journal played a key role in advancing his mathematical and scientific reputation, which in turn enhanced his eminence in diplomacy, history, theology, and philosophy.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Leibniz's correspondence, papers and notes from 1669 to 1704, National Library of Poland.
        
       
       
      The Elector Ernest Augustus commissioned Leibniz to write a history of the House of Brunswick, going back to the time of Charlemagne or earlier, hoping that the resulting book would advance his dynastic ambitions. From 1687 to 1690, Leibniz traveled extensively in Germany, Austria, and Italy, seeking and finding archival materials bearing on this project. Decades went by but no history appeared; the next Elector became quite annoyed at Leibniz's apparent dilatoriness. Leibniz never finished the project, in part because of his huge output on many other fronts, but also because he insisted on writing a meticulously researched and erudite book based on archival sources, when his patrons would have been quite happy with a short popular book, one perhaps little more than a genealogy with commentary, to be completed in three years or less. They never knew that he had in fact carried out a fair part of his assigned task: when the material Leibniz had written and collected for his history of the House of Brunswick was finally published in the 19th century, it filled three volumes. 
      Leibniz was appointed Librarian of the Herzog August Library in Wolfenbüttel, Lower Saxony, in 1691. 
      In 1708, John Keill, writing in the journal of the Royal Society and with Newton's presumed blessing, accused Leibniz of having plagiarised Newton's calculus. Thus began the calculus priority dispute which darkened the remainder of Leibniz's life. A formal investigation by the Royal Society (in which Newton was an unacknowledged participant), undertaken in response to Leibniz's demand for a retraction, upheld Keill's charge. Historians of mathematics writing since 1900 or so have tended to acquit Leibniz, pointing to important differences between Leibniz's and Newton's versions of calculus. 
      In 1711, while traveling in northern Europe, the Russian Tsar Peter the Great stopped in Hanover and met Leibniz, who then took some interest in Russian matters for the rest of his life. In 1712, Leibniz began a two-year residence in Vienna, where he was appointed Imperial Court Councillor to the Habsburgs. On the death of Queen Anne in 1714, Elector George Louis became King George I of Great Britain, under the terms of the 1701 Act of Settlement. Even though Leibniz had done much to bring about this happy event, it was not to be his hour of glory. Despite the intercession of the Princess of Wales, Caroline of Ansbach, George I forbade Leibniz to join him in London until he completed at least one volume of the history of the Brunswick family his father had commissioned nearly 30 years earlier. Moreover, for George I to include Leibniz in his London court would have been deemed insulting to Newton, who was seen as having won the calculus priority dispute and whose standing in British official circles could not have been higher. Finally, his dear friend and defender, the Dowager Electress Sophia, died in 1714.  
      Death 
      Leibniz died in Hanover in 1716. At the time, he was so out of favor that neither George I (who happened to be near Hanover at that time) nor any fellow courtier other than his personal secretary attended the funeral. Even though Leibniz was a life member of the Royal Society and the Berlin Academy of Sciences, neither organization saw fit to honor his death. His grave went unmarked for more than 50 years. He was, however, eulogized by Fontenelle, before the French Academy of Sciences in Paris, which had admitted him as a foreign member in 1700. The eulogy was composed at the behest of the Duchess of Orleans, a niece of the Electress Sophia.  
      Personal life 
      Leibniz never married. He complained on occasion about money, but the fair sum he left to his sole heir, his sister's stepson, proved that the Brunswicks had, by and large, paid him well. In his diplomatic endeavors, he at times verged on the unscrupulous, as was all too often the case with professional diplomats of his day. On several occasions, Leibniz backdated and altered personal manuscripts, actions which put him in a bad light during the calculus controversy. 
      He was charming, well-mannered, and not without humor and imagination. He had many friends and admirers all over Europe. He identified as a Protestant and a philosophical theist. Leibniz remained committed to Trinitarian Christianity throughout his life.  
      Philosopher 
      Leibniz's philosophical thinking appears fragmented, because his philosophical writings consist mainly of a multitude of short pieces: journal articles, manuscripts published long after his death, and many letters to many correspondents. He wrote only two book-length philosophical treatises, of which only the Théodicée of 1710 was published in his lifetime. 
      Leibniz dated his beginning as a philosopher to his Discourse on Metaphysics, which he composed in 1686 as a commentary on a running dispute between Nicolas Malebranche and Antoine Arnauld. This led to an extensive and valuable correspondence with Arnauld; it and the Discourse were not published until the 19th century. In 1695, Leibniz made his public entrée into European philosophy with a journal article titled "New System of the Nature and Communication of Substances". Between 1695 and 1705, he composed his New Essays on Human Understanding, a lengthy commentary on John Locke's 1690 An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, but upon learning of Locke's 1704 death, lost the desire to publish it, so that the New Essays were not published until 1765. The Monadologie, composed in 1714 and published posthumously, consists of 90 aphorisms. 
      Leibniz also wrote a short paper, "Primae veritates" ("First Truths"), first published by Louis Couturat in 1903 (pp.&nbsp;518–523) summarizing his views on metaphysics. The paper is undated; that he wrote it while in Vienna in 1689 was determined only in 1999, when the ongoing critical edition finally published Leibniz's philosophical writings for the period 1677–90. Couturat's reading of this paper was the launching point for much 20th-century thinking about Leibniz, especially among analytic philosophers. But after a meticulous study of all of Leibniz's philosophical writings up to 1688—a study the 1999 additions to the critical edition made possible—Mercer (2001) begged to differ with Couturat's reading; the jury is still out. 
      Leibniz met Spinoza in 1676, read some of his unpublished writings, and has since been suspected of appropriating some of Spinoza's ideas. While Leibniz admired Spinoza's powerful intellect, he was also forthrightly dismayed by Spinoza's conclusions, especially when these were inconsistent with Christian orthodoxy. 
      Unlike Descartes and Spinoza, Leibniz had a thorough university education in philosophy. He was influenced by his Leipzig professor Jakob Thomasius, who also supervised his BA thesis in philosophy. Leibniz also eagerly read Francisco Suárez, a Spanish Jesuit respected even in Lutheran universities. Leibniz was deeply interested in the new methods and conclusions of Descartes, Huygens, Newton, and Boyle, but viewed their work through a lens heavily tinted by scholastic notions. Yet it remains the case that Leibniz's methods and concerns often anticipate the logic, and analytic and linguistic philosophy of the 20th century.  
      Principles 
      Leibniz variously invoked one or another of seven fundamental philosophical Principles:  
      
       Identity/contradiction. If a proposition is true, then its negation is false and vice versa. 
       Identity of indiscernibles. Two distinct things cannot have all their properties in common. If every predicate possessed by x is also possessed by y and vice versa, then entities x and y are identical; to suppose two things indiscernible is to suppose the same thing under two names. Frequently invoked in modern logic and philosophy, the "identity of indiscernibles" is often referred to as Leibniz's Law. It has attracted the most controversy and criticism, especially from corpuscular philosophy and quantum mechanics. 
       Sufficient reason. "There must be a sufficient reason for anything to exist, for any event to occur, for any truth to obtain." 
       Pre-established harmony. "he appropriate nature of each substance brings it about that what happens to one corresponds to what happens to all the others, without, however, their acting upon one another directly." (Discourse on Metaphysics, XIV) A dropped glass shatters because it "knows" it has hit the ground, and not because the impact with the ground "compels" the glass to split. 
       Law of Continuity. Natura non facit saltus (literally, "Nature does not make jumps"). 
       Optimism. "God assuredly always chooses the best." 
       Plenitude. Leibniz believed that the best of all possible worlds would actualize every genuine possibility, and argued in Théodicée that this best of all possible worlds will contain all possibilities, with our finite experience of eternity giving no reason to dispute nature's perfection.
       
      Leibniz would on occasion give a rational defense of a specific principle, but more often took them for granted.  
      Monads 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A page from Leibniz's manuscript of the Monadology
        
       
       
      Leibniz's best known contribution to metaphysics is his theory of monads, as exposited in Monadologie. He proposes his theory that the universe is made of an infinite number of simple substances known as monads. Monads can also be compared to the corpuscles of the mechanical philosophy of René Descartes and others. These simple substances or monads are the "ultimate units of existence in nature". Monads have no parts but still exist by the qualities that they have. These qualities are continuously changing over time, and each monad is unique. They are also not affected by time and are subject to only creation and annihilation. Monads are centers of force; substance is force, while space, matter, and motion are merely phenomenal. It is said that he anticipated Albert Einstein by arguing, against Newton, that space, time, and motion are completely relative as he quipped, "As for my own opinion, I have said more than once, that I hold space to be something merely relative, as time is, that I hold it to be an order of coexistences, as time is an order of successions." Einstein, who called himself a "Leibnizian" even wrote in the introduction to Max Jammer's book Concepts of Space that Leibnizianism was superior to Newtonianism, and his ideas would have dominated over Newton's had it not been for the poor technological tools of the time; it has been argued that Leibniz paved the way for Einstein's theory of relativity. 
      Leibniz's proof of God can be summarized in the Théodicée. Reason is governed by the principle of contradiction and the principle of sufficient reason. Using the principle of reasoning, Leibniz concluded that the first reason of all things is God. All that we see and experience is subject to change, and the fact that this world is contingent can be explained by the possibility of the world being arranged differently in space and time. The contingent world must have some necessary reason for its existence. Leibniz uses a geometry book as an example to explain his reasoning. If this book was copied from an infinite chain of copies, there must be some reason for the content of the book. Leibniz concluded that there must be the "monas monadum" or God. 
      The ontological essence of a monad is its irreducible simplicity. Unlike atoms, monads possess no material or spatial character. They also differ from atoms by their complete mutual independence, so that interactions among monads are only apparent. Instead, by virtue of the principle of pre-established harmony, each monad follows a pre-programmed set of "instructions" peculiar to itself, so that a monad "knows" what to do at each moment. By virtue of these intrinsic instructions, each monad is like a little mirror of the universe. Monads need not be "small"; e.g., each human being constitutes a monad, in which case free will is problematic. 
      Monads are purported to have gotten rid of the problematic:  
      
       interaction between mind and matter arising in the system of Descartes; 
       lack of individuation inherent to the system of Spinoza, which represents individual creatures as merely accidental.
       
      Theodicy and optimism 
      
      
       Further information: Best of all possible worlds and Philosophical optimism
       
      The Theodicy tries to justify the apparent imperfections of the world by claiming that it is optimal among all possible worlds. It must be the best possible and most balanced world, because it was created by an all powerful and all knowing God, who would not choose to create an imperfect world if a better world could be known to him or possible to exist. In effect, apparent flaws that can be identified in this world must exist in every possible world, because otherwise God would have chosen to create the world that excluded those flaws. 
      Leibniz asserted that the truths of theology (religion) and philosophy cannot contradict each other, since reason and faith are both "gifts of God" so that their conflict would imply God contending against himself. The Theodicy is Leibniz's attempt to reconcile his personal philosophical system with his interpretation of the tenets of Christianity. This project was motivated in part by Leibniz's belief, shared by many philosophers and theologians during the Enlightenment, in the rational and enlightened nature of the Christian religion. It was also shaped by Leibniz's belief in the perfectibility of human nature (if humanity relied on correct philosophy and religion as a guide), and by his belief that metaphysical necessity must have a rational or logical foundation, even if this metaphysical causality seemed inexplicable in terms of physical necessity (the natural laws identified by science). 
      Because reason and faith must be entirely reconciled, any tenet of faith which could not be defended by reason must be rejected. Leibniz then approached one of the central criticisms of Christian theism: if God is all good, all wise, and all powerful, then how did evil come into the world? The answer (according to Leibniz) is that, while God is indeed unlimited in wisdom and power, his human creations, as creations, are limited both in their wisdom and in their will (power to act). This predisposes humans to false beliefs, wrong decisions, and ineffective actions in the exercise of their free will. God does not arbitrarily inflict pain and suffering on humans; rather he permits both moral evil (sin) and physical evil (pain and suffering) as the necessary consequences of metaphysical evil (imperfection), as a means by which humans can identify and correct their erroneous decisions, and as a contrast to true good. 
      Further, although human actions flow from prior causes that ultimately arise in God and therefore are known to God as metaphysical certainties, an individual's free will is exercised within natural laws, where choices are merely contingently necessary and to be decided in the event by a "wonderful spontaneity" that provides individuals with an escape from rigorous predestination.  
      Discourse on Metaphysics 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      For Leibniz, "God is an absolutely perfect being". He describes this perfection later in section VI as the simplest form of something with the most substantial outcome (VI). Along these lines, he declares that every type of perfection "pertains to him (God) in the highest degree" (I). Even though his types of perfections are not specifically drawn out, Leibniz highlights the one thing that, to him, does certify imperfections and proves that God is perfect: "that one acts imperfectly if he acts with less perfection than he is capable of", and since God is a perfect being, he cannot act imperfectly (III). Because God cannot act imperfectly, the decisions he makes pertaining to the world must be perfect. Leibniz also comforts readers, stating that because he has done everything to the most perfect degree; those who love him cannot be injured. However, to love God is a subject of difficulty as Leibniz believes that we are "not disposed to wish for that which God desires" because we have the ability to alter our disposition (IV). In accordance with this, many act as rebels, but Leibniz says that the only way we can truly love God is by being content "with all that comes to us according to his will" (IV). 
      Because God is "an absolutely perfect being" (I), Leibniz argues that God would be acting imperfectly if he acted with any less perfection than what he is able of (III). His syllogism then ends with the statement that God has made the world perfectly in all ways. This also affects how we should view God and his will. Leibniz states that, in lieu of God’s will, we have to understand that God "is the best of all masters" and he will know when his good succeeds, so we, therefore, must act in conformity to his good will—or as much of it as we understand (IV). In our view of God, Leibniz declares that we cannot admire the work solely because of the maker, lest we mar the glory and love God in doing so. Instead, we must admire the maker for the work he has done (II). Effectively, Leibniz states that if we say the earth is good because of the will of God, and not good according to some standards of goodness, then how can we praise God for what he has done if contrary actions are also praiseworthy by this definition (II). Leibniz then asserts that different principles and geometry cannot simply be from the will of God, but must follow from his understanding.  
      Fundamental question of metaphysics 
      Leibniz wrote: "Why is there something rather than nothing? The sufficient reason ... is found in a substance which ... is a necessary being bearing the reason for its existence within itself." Martin Heidegger called this question "the fundamental question of metaphysics".  
      Symbolic thought 
      Leibniz believed that much of human reasoning could be reduced to calculations of a sort, and that such calculations could resolve many differences of opinion:  
      
       The only way to rectify our reasonings is to make them as tangible as those of the Mathematicians, so that we can find our error at a glance, and when there are disputes among persons, we can simply say: Let us calculate , without further ado, to see who is right.
       
      Leibniz's calculus ratiocinator, which resembles symbolic logic, can be viewed as a way of making such calculations feasible. Leibniz wrote memoranda that can now be read as groping attempts to get symbolic logic—and thus his calculus—off the ground. These writings remained unpublished until the appearance of a selection edited by Carl Immanuel Gerhardt (1859). Louis Couturat published a selection in 1901; by this time the main developments of modern logic had been created by Charles Sanders Peirce and by Gottlob Frege. 
      Leibniz thought symbols were important for human understanding. He attached so much importance to the development of good notations that he attributed all his discoveries in mathematics to this. His notation for calculus is an example of his skill in this regard. Leibniz's passion for symbols and notation, as well as his belief that these are essential to a well-running logic and mathematics, made him a precursor of semiotics. 
      But Leibniz took his speculations much further. Defining a character as any written sign, he then defined a "real" character as one that represents an idea directly and not simply as the word embodying the idea. Some real characters, such as the notation of logic, serve only to facilitate reasoning. Many characters well known in his day, including Egyptian hieroglyphics, Chinese characters, and the symbols of astronomy and chemistry, he deemed not real. Instead, he proposed the creation of a characteristica universalis or "universal characteristic", built on an alphabet of human thought in which each fundamental concept would be represented by a unique "real" character:  
      
       It is obvious that if we could find characters or signs suited for expressing all our thoughts as clearly and as exactly as arithmetic expresses numbers or geometry expresses lines, we could do in all matters insofar as they are subject to reasoning all that we can do in arithmetic and geometry. For all investigations which depend on reasoning would be carried out by transposing these characters and by a species of calculus.
       
      Complex thoughts would be represented by combining characters for simpler thoughts. Leibniz saw that the uniqueness of prime factorization suggests a central role for prime numbers in the universal characteristic, a striking anticipation of Gödel numbering. Granted, there is no intuitive or mnemonic way to number any set of elementary concepts using the prime numbers. 
      Because Leibniz was a mathematical novice when he first wrote about the characteristic, at first he did not conceive it as an algebra but rather as a universal language or script. Only in 1676 did he conceive of a kind of "algebra of thought", modeled on and including conventional algebra and its notation. The resulting characteristic included a logical calculus, some combinatorics, algebra, his analysis situs (geometry of situation), a universal concept language, and more. What Leibniz actually intended by his characteristica universalis and calculus ratiocinator, and the extent to which modern formal logic does justice to calculus, may never be established. Leibniz's idea of reasoning through a universal language of symbols and calculations remarkably foreshadows great 20th-century developments in formal systems, such as Turing completeness, where computation was used to define equivalent universal languages (see Turing degree).  
      Formal logic 
      
      
       Main article: Algebraic logic
       
      Leibniz has been noted as one of the most important logicians between the times of Aristotle and Gottlob Frege. Leibniz enunciated the principal properties of what we now call conjunction, disjunction, negation, identity, set inclusion, and the empty set. The principles of Leibniz's logic and, arguably, of his whole philosophy, reduce to two:  
      
       All our ideas are compounded from a very small number of simple ideas, which form the alphabet of human thought. 
       Complex ideas proceed from these simple ideas by a uniform and symmetrical combination, analogous to arithmetical multiplication.
       
      The formal logic that emerged early in the 20th century also requires, at minimum, unary negation and quantified variables ranging over some universe of discourse. 
      Leibniz published nothing on formal logic in his lifetime; most of what he wrote on the subject consists of working drafts. In his History of Western Philosophy, Bertrand Russell went so far as to claim that Leibniz had developed logic in his unpublished writings to a level which was reached only 200 years later. 
      Russell's principal work on Leibniz found that many of Leibniz's most startling philosophical ideas and claims (e.g., that each of the fundamental monads mirrors the whole universe) follow logically from Leibniz's conscious choice to reject relations between things as unreal. He regarded such relations as (real) qualities of things (Leibniz admitted unary predicates only): For him, "Mary is the mother of John" describes separate qualities of Mary and of John. This view contrasts with the relational logic of De Morgan, Peirce, Schröder and Russell himself, now standard in predicate logic. Notably, Leibniz also declared space and time to be inherently relational. 
      Leibniz's 1690 discovery of his algebra of concepts (deductively equivalent to the Boolean algebra) and the associated metaphysics, are of interest in present-day computational metaphysics.  
      Mathematician 
      Although the mathematical notion of function was implicit in trigonometric and logarithmic tables, which existed in his day, Leibniz was the first, in 1692 and 1694, to employ it explicitly, to denote any of several geometric concepts derived from a curve, such as abscissa, ordinate, tangent, chord, and the perpendicular (see History of the function concept). In the 18th century, "function" lost these geometrical associations. Leibniz also believed that the sum of an infinite number of zeros would be equal to one half using the analogy of the creation of the world from nothing. Leibniz was also one of the pioneers in actuarial science, calculating the purchase price of life annuities and the liquidation of a state's debt. 
      Leibniz's research into formal logic, also relevant to mathematics, is discussed in the preceding section. The best overview of Leibniz's writings on calculus may be found in Bos (1974). 
      Leibniz, who invented one of the earliest mechanical calculators, said of calculation: "For it is unworthy of excellent men to lose hours like slaves in the labor of calculation which could safely be relegated to anyone else if machines were used."  
      Linear systems 
      Leibniz arranged the coefficients of a system of linear equations into an array, now called a matrix, in order to find a solution to the system if it existed. This method was later called Gaussian elimination. Leibniz laid down the foundations and theory of determinants, although the Japanese mathematician Seki Takakazu also discovered determinants independently of Leibniz. His works show calculating the determinants using cofactors. Calculating the determinant using cofactors is named the Leibniz formula. Finding the determinant of a matrix using this method proves impractical with large n, requiring to calculate n! products and the number of n-permutations. He also solved systems of linear equations using determinants, which is now called Cramer's rule. This method for solving systems of linear equations based on determinants was found in 1684 by Leibniz (Cramer published his findings in 1750). Although Gaussian elimination requires 
           
            
             
             
              O
              
             
              (
              
              
              
               n
               
               
               
                3
                
               
              
             
              )
              
             
            
           
            )}
            
           
          arithmetic operations, linear algebra textbooks still teach cofactor expansion before LU factorization.  
      Geometry 
      The Leibniz formula for π states that  
      
       
        
            
             
              
              
               1
               
               
              
               −
               
               
               
                
                
                 1
                 
                
                 3
                 
                
               
               
              
               +
               
               
               
                
                
                 1
                 
                
                 5
                 
                
               
               
              
               −
               
               
               
                
                
                 1
                 
                
                 7
                 
                
               
               
              
               +
               
               
              
               ⋯
               
               
              
               =
               
               
               
                
                
                 π
                 
                
                 4
                 
                
               
              
               .
               
              
             
            
             }\,+\,}\,-\,}\,+\,\cdots \,=\,}.}
             
            
          
       
       
      Leibniz wrote that circles "can most simply be expressed by this series, that is, the aggregate of fractions alternately added and subtracted". However this formula is only accurate with a large number of terms, using 10,000,000 terms to obtain the correct value of π/4 to 8 decimal places. Leibniz attempted to create a definition for a straight line while attempting to prove the parallel postulate. While most mathematicians defined a straight line as the shortest line between two points, Leibniz believed that this was merely a property of a straight line rather than the definition.  
      Calculus 
      Leibniz is credited, along with Sir Isaac Newton, with the discovery of calculus (differential and integral calculus). According to Leibniz's notebooks, a critical breakthrough occurred on 11 November 1675, when he employed integral calculus for the first time to find the area under the graph of a function y = f(x). He introduced several notations used to this day, for instance the integral sign ∫, representing an elongated S, from the Latin word summa, and the d used for differentials, from the Latin word differentia. Leibniz did not publish anything about his calculus until 1684. Leibniz expressed the inverse relation of integration and differentiation, later called the fundamental theorem of calculus, by means of a figure in his 1693 paper Supplementum geometriae dimensoriae.... However, James Gregory is credited for the theorem's discovery in geometric form, Isaac Barrow proved a more generalized geometric version, and Newton developed supporting theory. The concept became more transparent as developed through Leibniz's formalism and new notation. The product rule of differential calculus is still called "Leibniz's law". In addition, the theorem that tells how and when to differentiate under the integral sign is called the Leibniz integral rule. 
      Leibniz exploited infinitesimals in developing calculus, manipulating them in ways suggesting that they had paradoxical algebraic properties. George Berkeley, in a tract called The Analyst and also in De Motu, criticized these. A recent study argues that Leibnizian calculus was free of contradictions, and was better grounded than Berkeley's empiricist criticisms. 
      From 1711 until his death, Leibniz was engaged in a dispute with John Keill, Newton and others, over whether Leibniz had invented calculus independently of Newton. This subject is treated at length in the article Leibniz–Newton calculus controversy. 
      The use of infinitesimals in mathematics was frowned upon by followers of Karl Weierstrass, but survived in science and engineering, and even in rigorous mathematics, via the fundamental computational device known as the differential. Beginning in 1960, Abraham Robinson worked out a rigorous foundation for Leibniz's infinitesimals, using model theory, in the context of a field of hyperreal numbers. The resulting non-standard analysis can be seen as a belated vindication of Leibniz's mathematical reasoning. Robinson's transfer principle is a mathematical implementation of Leibniz's heuristic law of continuity, while the standard part function implements the Leibnizian transcendental law of homogeneity.  
      Topology 
      Leibniz was the first to use the term analysis situs, later used in the 19th century to refer to what is now known as topology. There are two takes on this situation. On the one hand, Mates, citing a 1954 paper in German by Jacob Freudenthal, argues:  
      
       Although for Leibniz the situs of a sequence of points is completely determined by the distance between them and is altered if those distances are altered, his admirer Euler, in the famous 1736 paper solving the Königsberg Bridge Problem and its generalizations, used the term geometria situs in such a sense that the situs remains unchanged under topological deformations. He mistakenly credits Leibniz with originating this concept. ...  is sometimes not realized that Leibniz used the term in an entirely different sense and hence can hardly be considered the founder of that part of mathematics.
       
      But Hideaki Hirano argues differently, quoting Mandelbrot:  
      
       To sample Leibniz' scientific works is a sobering experience. Next to calculus, and to other thoughts that have been carried out to completion, the number and variety of premonitory thrusts is overwhelming. We saw examples in "packing",&nbsp;... My Leibniz mania is further reinforced by finding that for one moment its hero attached importance to geometric scaling. In Euclidis Prota&nbsp;..., which is an attempt to tighten Euclid's axioms, he states&nbsp;...: "I have diverse definitions for the straight line. The straight line is a curve, any part of which is similar to the whole, and it alone has this property, not only among curves but among sets." This claim can be proved today.
       
      Thus the fractal geometry promoted by Mandelbrot drew on Leibniz's notions of self-similarity and the principle of continuity: Natura non facit saltus. We also see that when Leibniz wrote, in a metaphysical vein, that "the straight line is a curve, any part of which is similar to the whole", he was anticipating topology by more than two centuries. As for "packing", Leibniz told his friend and correspondent Des Bosses to imagine a circle, then to inscribe within it three congruent circles with maximum radius; the latter smaller circles could be filled with three even smaller circles by the same procedure. This process can be continued infinitely, from which arises a good idea of self-similarity. Leibniz's improvement of Euclid's axiom contains the same concept.  
      Scientist and engineer 
      Leibniz's writings are currently discussed, not only for their anticipations and possible discoveries not yet recognized, but as ways of advancing present knowledge. Much of his writing on physics is included in Gerhardt's Mathematical Writings.  
      Physics 
      
      
       See also: Dynamism (metaphysics) and Conatus §&nbsp;In Leibniz
       
      Leibniz contributed a fair amount to the statics and dynamics emerging around him, often disagreeing with Descartes and Newton. He devised a new theory of motion (dynamics) based on kinetic energy and potential energy, which posited space as relative, whereas Newton was thoroughly convinced that space was absolute. An important example of Leibniz's mature physical thinking is his Specimen Dynamicum of 1695. 
      Until the discovery of subatomic particles and the quantum mechanics governing them, many of Leibniz's speculative ideas about aspects of nature not reducible to statics and dynamics made little sense. For instance, he anticipated Albert Einstein by arguing, against Newton, that space, time and motion are relative, not absolute: "As for my own opinion, I have said more than once, that I hold space to be something merely relative, as time is, that I hold it to be an order of coexistences, as time is an order of successions." 
      Leibniz held a relationist notion of space and time, against Newton's substantivalist views. According to Newton's substantivalism, space and time are entities in their own right, existing independently of things. Leibniz's relationism, in contrast, describes space and time as systems of relations that exist between objects. The rise of general relativity and subsequent work in the history of physics has put Leibniz's stance in a more favorable light. 
      One of Leibniz's projects was to recast Newton's theory as a vortex theory. However, his project went beyond vortex theory, since at its heart there was an attempt to explain one of the most difficult problems in physics, that of the origin of the cohesion of matter. 
      The principle of sufficient reason has been invoked in recent cosmology, and his identity of indiscernibles in quantum mechanics, a field some even credit him with having anticipated in some sense. Those who advocate digital philosophy, a recent direction in cosmology, claim Leibniz as a precursor. In addition to his theories about the nature of reality, Leibniz's contributions to the development of calculus have also had a major impact on physics.  
      The vis viva 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Leibniz's vis viva (Latin for "living force") is mv2, twice the modern kinetic energy. He realized that the total energy would be conserved in certain mechanical systems, so he considered it an innate motive characteristic of matter. Here too his thinking gave rise to another regrettable nationalistic dispute. His vis viva was seen as rivaling the conservation of momentum championed by Newton in England and by Descartes and Voltaire in France; hence academics in those countries tended to neglect Leibniz's idea. Leibniz knew of the validity of conservation of momentum. In reality, both energy and momentum are conserved, so both approaches are valid.  
      Other natural science 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      By proposing that the earth has a molten core, he anticipated modern geology. In embryology, he was a preformationist, but also proposed that organisms are the outcome of a combination of an infinite number of possible microstructures and of their powers. In the life sciences and paleontology, he revealed an amazing transformist intuition, fueled by his study of comparative anatomy and fossils. One of his principal works on this subject, Protogaea, unpublished in his lifetime, has recently been published in English for the first time. He worked out a primal organismic theory. In medicine, he exhorted the physicians of his time—with some results—to ground their theories in detailed comparative observations and verified experiments, and to distinguish firmly scientific and metaphysical points of view.  
      Psychology 
      Psychology had been a central interest of Leibniz. He appears to be an "underappreciated pioneer of psychology" He wrote on topics which are now regarded as fields of psychology: attention and consciousness, memory, learning (association), motivation (the act of "striving"), emergent individuality, the general dynamics of development (evolutionary psychology). His discussions in the New Essays and Monadology often rely on everyday observations such as the behaviour of a dog or the noise of the sea, and he develops intuitive analogies (the synchronous running of clocks or the balance spring of a clock). He also devised postulates and principles that apply to psychology: the continuum of the unnoticed petites perceptions to the distinct, self-aware apperception, and psychophysical parallelism from the point of view of causality and of purpose: "Souls act according to the laws of final causes, through aspirations, ends and means. Bodies act according to the laws of efficient causes, i.e. the laws of motion. And these two realms, that of efficient causes and that of final causes, harmonize with one another." This idea refers to the mind-body problem, stating that the mind and brain do not act upon each other, but act alongside each other separately but in harmony. Leibniz, however, did not use the term psychologia. Leibniz’ epistemological position—against John Locke and English empiricism (sensualism)—was made clear: "Nihil est in intellectu quod non fuerit in sensu, nisi intellectu ipse." – "Nothing is in the intellect that was not first in the senses, except the intellect itself." Principles that are not present in sensory impressions can be recognised in human perception and consciousness: logical inferences, categories of thought, the principle of causality and the principle of purpose (teleology). 
      Leibniz found his most important interpreter in Wilhelm Wundt, founder of psychology as a discipline. Wundt used the "… nisi intellectu ipse" quotation 1862 on the title page of his Beiträge zur Theorie der Sinneswahrnehmung (Contributions on the Theory of Sensory Perception) and published a detailed and aspiring monograph on Leibniz. Wundt shaped the term apperception, introduced by Leibniz, into an experimental psychologically based apperception psychology that included neuropsychological modelling – an excellent example of how a concept created by a great philosopher could stimulate a psychological research program. One principle in the thinking of Leibniz played a fundamental role: "the principle of equality of separate but corresponding viewpoints." Wundt characterized this style of thought (perspectivism) in a way that also applied for him—viewpoints that "supplement one another, while also being able to appear as opposites that only resolve themselves when considered more deeply." Much of Leibniz's work went on to have a great impact on the field of psychology. Leibniz thought that there are many petites perceptions, or small perceptions of which we perceive but of which we are unaware. He believed that by the principle that phenomena found in nature were continuous by default, it was likely that the transition between conscious and unconscious states had intermediary steps. For this to be true, there must also be a portion of the mind of which we are unaware at any given time. His theory regarding consciousness in relation to the principle of continuity can be seen as an early theory regarding the stages of sleep. In this way, Leibniz's theory of perception can be viewed as one of many theories leading up to the idea of the unconscious. Leibniz was a direct influence on Ernst Platner, who is credited with originally coining the term Unbewußtseyn (unconscious). Additionally, the idea of subliminal stimuli can be traced back to his theory of small perceptions. Leibniz's ideas regarding music and tonal perception went on to influence the laboratory studies of Wilhelm Wundt.  
      Social science 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      In public health, he advocated establishing a medical administrative authority, with powers over epidemiology and veterinary medicine. He worked to set up a coherent medical training program, oriented towards public health and preventive measures. In economic policy, he proposed tax reforms and a national insurance program, and discussed the balance of trade. He even proposed something akin to what much later emerged as game theory. In sociology he laid the ground for communication theory.  
      Technology 
      In 1906, Garland published a volume of Leibniz's writings bearing on his many practical inventions and engineering work. To date, few of these writings have been translated into English. Nevertheless, it is well understood that Leibniz was a serious inventor, engineer, and applied scientist, with great respect for practical life. Following the motto theoria cum praxi, he urged that theory be combined with practical application, and thus has been claimed as the father of applied science. He designed wind-driven propellers and water pumps, mining machines to extract ore, hydraulic presses, lamps, submarines, clocks, etc. With Denis Papin, he created a steam engine. He even proposed a method for desalinating water. From 1680 to 1685, he struggled to overcome the chronic flooding that afflicted the ducal silver mines in the Harz Mountains, but did not succeed.  
      Computation 
      Leibniz may have been the first computer scientist and information theorist. Early in life, he documented the binary numeral system (base 2), then revisited that system throughout his career. While Leibniz was examining other cultures to compare his metaphysical views, he encountered an ancient Chinese book I Ching. Leibniz interpreted a diagram which showed yin and yang and corresponded it to a zero and one. More information can be found in the Sinophile section. Leibniz may have plagiarized Juan Caramuel y Lobkowitz and Thomas Harriot, who independently developed the binary system, as he was familiar with their works on the binary system. Juan Caramuel y Lobkowitz worked extensively on logarithms including logarithms with base 2. Thomas Harriot's manuscripts contained a table of binary numbers and their notation, which demonstrated that any number could be written on a base 2 system. Regardless, Leibniz simplified the binary system and articulated logical properties such as conjunction, disjunction, negation, identity, inclusion, and the empty set. He anticipated Lagrangian interpolation and algorithmic information theory. His calculus ratiocinator anticipated aspects of the universal Turing machine. In 1961, Norbert Wiener suggested that Leibniz should be considered the patron saint of cybernetics. Wiener is quoted with "Indeed, the general idea of a computing machine is nothing but a mechanization of Leibniz's Calculus Ratiocinator." 
      In 1671, Leibniz began to invent a machine that could execute all four arithmetic operations, gradually improving it over a number of years. This "stepped reckoner" attracted fair attention and was the basis of his election to the Royal Society in 1673. A number of such machines were made during his years in Hanover by a craftsman working under his supervision. They were not an unambiguous success because they did not fully mechanize the carry operation. Couturat reported finding an unpublished note by Leibniz, dated 1674, describing a machine capable of performing some algebraic operations. Leibniz also devised a (now reproduced) cipher machine, recovered by Nicholas Rescher in 2010. In 1693, Leibniz described a design of a machine which could, in theory, integrate differential equations, which he called "integraph". 
      Leibniz was groping towards hardware and software concepts worked out much later by Charles Babbage and Ada Lovelace. In 1679, while mulling over his binary arithmetic, Leibniz imagined a machine in which binary numbers were represented by marbles, governed by a rudimentary sort of punched cards. Modern electronic digital computers replace Leibniz's marbles moving by gravity with shift registers, voltage gradients, and pulses of electrons, but otherwise they run roughly as Leibniz envisioned in 1679.  
      Librarian 
      Later in Leibniz’s career (after the death of von Boyneburg), Leibniz moved to Paris and accepted a position as a librarian in the Hanoverian court of Johann Friedrich, Duke of Brunswick-Luneburg. Leibniz’s predecessor, Tobias Fleischer, had already created a cataloging system for the Duke’s library but it was a clumsy attempt. At this library, Leibniz focused more on advancing the library than on the cataloging. For instance, within a month of taking the new position, he developed a comprehensive plan to expand the library. He was one of the first to consider developing a core collection for a library and felt "that a library for display and ostentation is a luxury and indeed superfluous, but a well-stocked and organized library is important and useful for all areas of human endeavor and is to be regarded on the same level as schools and churches". Unfortunately, Leibniz lacked the funds to develop the library in this manner. After working at this library, by the end of 1690 Leibniz was appointed as privy-councilor and librarian of the Bibliotheca Augusta at Wolfenbüttel. It was an extensive library with at least 25,946 printed volumes. At this library, Leibniz sought to improve the catalog. He was not allowed to make complete changes to the existing closed catalog, but was allowed to improve upon it so he started on that task immediately. He created an alphabetical author catalog and had also created other cataloging methods that were not implemented. While serving as librarian of the ducal libraries in Hanover and Wolfenbüttel, Leibniz effectively became one of the founders of library science. He also designed a book indexing system in ignorance of the only other such system then extant, that of the Bodleian Library at Oxford University. He also called on publishers to distribute abstracts of all new titles they produced each year, in a standard form that would facilitate indexing. He hoped that this abstracting project would eventually include everything printed from his day back to Gutenberg. Neither proposal met with success at the time, but something like them became standard practice among English language publishers during the 20th century, under the aegis of the Library of Congress and the British Library. 
      He called for the creation of an empirical database as a way to further all sciences. His characteristica universalis, calculus ratiocinator, and a "community of minds"—intended, among other things, to bring political and religious unity to Europe—can be seen as distant unwitting anticipations of artificial languages (e.g., Esperanto and its rivals), symbolic logic, even the World Wide Web.  
      Advocate of scientific societies 
      Leibniz emphasized that research was a collaborative endeavor. Hence he warmly advocated the formation of national scientific societies along the lines of the British Royal Society and the French Académie Royale des Sciences. More specifically, in his correspondence and travels he urged the creation of such societies in Dresden, Saint Petersburg, Vienna, and Berlin. Only one such project came to fruition; in 1700, the Berlin Academy of Sciences was created. Leibniz drew up its first statutes, and served as its first President for the remainder of his life. That Academy evolved into the German Academy of Sciences, the publisher of the ongoing critical edition of his works.  
      Lawyer and moralist 
      Leibniz's writings on law, ethics, and politics were long overlooked by English-speaking scholars, but this has changed of late. 
      While Leibniz was no apologist for absolute monarchy like Hobbes, or for tyranny in any form, neither did he echo the political and constitutional views of his contemporary John Locke, views invoked in support of liberalism, in 18th-century America and later elsewhere. The following excerpt from a 1695 letter to Baron J. C. Boyneburg's son Philipp is very revealing of Leibniz's political sentiments:  
      
       As for&nbsp;... the great question of the power of sovereigns and the obedience their peoples owe them, I usually say that it would be good for princes to be persuaded that their people have the right to resist them, and for the people, on the other hand, to be persuaded to obey them passively. I am, however, quite of the opinion of Grotius, that one ought to obey as a rule, the evil of revolution being greater beyond comparison than the evils causing it. Yet I recognize that a prince can go to such excess, and place the well-being of the state in such danger, that the obligation to endure ceases. This is most rare, however, and the theologian who authorizes violence under this pretext should take care against excess; excess being infinitely more dangerous than deficiency.
       
      In 1677, Leibniz called for a European confederation, governed by a council or senate, whose members would represent entire nations and would be free to vote their consciences; this is sometimes considered an anticipation of the European Union. He believed that Europe would adopt a uniform religion. He reiterated these proposals in 1715. 
      But at the same time, he arrived to propose an interreligious and multicultural project to create a universal system of justice, which required from him a broad interdisciplinary perspective. In order to propose it, he combined linguistics (especially sinology), moral and legal philosophy, management, economics, and politics.  
      Ecumenism 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Leibniz devoted considerable intellectual and diplomatic effort to what would now be called ecumenical endeavor, seeking to reconcile the Roman Catholic and Lutheran churches. In this respect, he followed the example of his early patrons, Baron von Boyneburg and the Duke John Frederick—both cradle Lutherans who converted to Catholicism as adults—who did what they could to encourage the reunion of the two faiths, and who warmly welcomed such endeavors by others. (The House of Brunswick remained Lutheran, because the Duke's children did not follow their father.) These efforts included corresponding with French bishop Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet, and involved Leibniz in some theological controversy. He evidently thought that the thoroughgoing application of reason would suffice to heal the breach caused by the Reformation.  
      Philologist 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Leibniz the philologist was an avid student of languages, eagerly latching on to any information about vocabulary and grammar that came his way. He refuted the belief, widely held by Christian scholars of the time, that Hebrew was the primeval language of the human race. He also refuted the argument, advanced by Swedish scholars in his day, that a form of proto-Swedish was the ancestor of the Germanic languages. He puzzled over the origins of the Slavic languages and was fascinated by classical Chinese. Leibniz was also an expert in the Sanskrit language. 
      He published the princeps editio (first modern edition) of the late medieval Chronicon Holtzatiae, a Latin chronicle of the County of Holstein.  
      Sinophile 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A diagram of I Ching hexagrams sent to Leibniz from Joachim Bouvet. The Arabic numerals were added by Leibniz.
        
       
       
      Leibniz was perhaps the first major European intellectual to take a close interest in Chinese civilization, which he knew by corresponding with, and reading other works by, European Christian missionaries posted in China. He apparently read Confucius Sinarum Philosophus in the first year of its publication. He came to the conclusion that Europeans could learn much from the Confucian ethical tradition. He mulled over the possibility that the Chinese characters were an unwitting form of his universal characteristic. He noted how the I Ching hexagrams correspond to the binary numbers from 000000 to 111111, and concluded that this mapping was evidence of major Chinese accomplishments in the sort of philosophical mathematics he admired. Leibniz communicated his ideas of the binary system representing Christianity to the Emperor of China, hoping it would convert him. Leibniz was the only major Western philosopher of the time who attempted to accommodate Confucian ideas to prevailing European beliefs. 
      Leibniz's attraction to Chinese philosophy originates from his perception that Chinese philosophy was similar to his own. The historian E.R. Hughes suggests that Leibniz's ideas of "simple substance" and "pre-established harmony" were directly influenced by Confucianism, pointing to the fact that they were conceived during the period when he was reading Confucius Sinarum Philosophus.  
      Polymath 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      While making his grand tour of European archives to research the Brunswick family history that he never completed, Leibniz stopped in Vienna between May 1688 and February 1689, where he did much legal and diplomatic work for the Brunswicks. He visited mines, talked with mine engineers, and tried to negotiate export contracts for lead from the ducal mines in the Harz mountains. His proposal that the streets of Vienna be lit with lamps burning rapeseed oil was implemented. During a formal audience with the Austrian Emperor and in subsequent memoranda, he advocated reorganizing the Austrian economy, reforming the coinage of much of central Europe, negotiating a Concordat between the Habsburgs and the Vatican, and creating an imperial research library, official archive, and public insurance fund. He wrote and published an important paper on mechanics.  
      Posthumous reputation 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Leibnizstrasse street sign Berlin
        
       
       
      When Leibniz died, his reputation was in decline. He was remembered for only one book, the Théodicée, whose supposed central argument Voltaire lampooned in his popular book Candide, which concludes with the character Candide saying, "Non liquet" (it is not clear), a term that was applied during the Roman Republic to a legal verdict of "not proven". Voltaire's depiction of Leibniz's ideas was so influential that many believed it to be an accurate description. Thus Voltaire and his Candide bear some of the blame for the lingering failure to appreciate and understand Leibniz's ideas. Leibniz had an ardent disciple, Christian Wolff, whose dogmatic and facile outlook did Leibniz's reputation much harm. He also influenced David Hume, who read his Théodicée and used some of his ideas. In any event, philosophical fashion was moving away from the rationalism and system building of the 17th century, of which Leibniz had been such an ardent proponent. His work on law, diplomacy, and history was seen as of ephemeral interest. The vastness and richness of his correspondence went unrecognized. 
      Much of Europe came to doubt that Leibniz had discovered calculus independently of Newton, and hence his whole work in mathematics and physics was neglected. Voltaire, an admirer of Newton, also wrote Candide at least in part to discredit Leibniz's claim to having discovered calculus and Leibniz's charge that Newton's theory of universal gravitation was incorrect. 
      Leibniz's long march to his present glory began with the 1765 publication of the Nouveaux Essais, which Kant read closely. In 1768, Louis Dutens edited the first multi-volume edition of Leibniz's writings, followed in the 19th century by a number of editions, including those edited by Erdmann, Foucher de Careil, Gerhardt, Gerland, Klopp, and Mollat. Publication of Leibniz's correspondence with notables such as Antoine Arnauld, Samuel Clarke, Sophia of Hanover, and her daughter Sophia Charlotte of Hanover, began. 
      In 1900, Bertrand Russell published a critical study of Leibniz's metaphysics. Shortly thereafter, Louis Couturat published an important study of Leibniz, and edited a volume of Leibniz's heretofore unpublished writings, mainly on logic. They made Leibniz somewhat respectable among 20th-century analytical and linguistic philosophers in the English-speaking world (Leibniz had already been of great influence to many Germans such as Bernhard Riemann). For example, Leibniz's phrase salva veritate, meaning interchangeability without loss of or compromising the truth, recurs in Willard Quine's writings. Nevertheless, the secondary literature on Leibniz did not really blossom until after World War II. This is especially true of English speaking countries; in Gregory Brown's bibliography fewer than 30 of the English language entries were published before 1946. American Leibniz studies owe much to Leroy Loemker (1904–1985) through his translations and his interpretive essays in LeClerc (1973). 
      Nicholas Jolley has surmised that Leibniz's reputation as a philosopher is now perhaps higher than at any time since he was alive. Analytic and contemporary philosophy continue to invoke his notions of identity, individuation, and possible worlds. Work in the history of 17th- and 18th-century ideas has revealed more clearly the 17th-century "Intellectual Revolution" that preceded the better-known Industrial and commercial revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. 
      In 1985, the German government created the Leibniz Prize, offering an annual award of 1.55&nbsp;million euros for experimental results and 770,000 euros for theoretical ones. It was the world's largest prize for scientific achievement prior to the Fundamental Physics Prize. 
      The collection of manuscript papers of Leibniz at the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Bibliothek – Niedersächische Landesbibliothek was inscribed on UNESCO's Memory of the World Register in 2007.  
      Cultural references 
      Leibniz still receives popular attention. The Google Doodle for 1 July 2018 celebrated Leibniz's 372nd birthday. Using a quill, his hand is shown writing "Google" in binary ASCII code. 
      One of the earliest popular but indirect expositions of Leibniz was Voltaire's satire Candide, published in 1759. Leibniz was lampooned as Professor Pangloss, described as "the greatest philosopher of the Holy Roman Empire". 
      Leibniz also appears as one of the main historical figures in Neal Stephenson's series of novels The Baroque Cycle. Stephenson credits readings and discussions concerning Leibniz for inspiring him to write the series. 
      Leibniz also stars in Adam Ehrlich Sachs's novel The Organs of Sense.  
      Writings and publication 
      Leibniz mainly wrote in three languages: scholastic Latin, French and German. During his lifetime, he published many pamphlets and scholarly articles, but only two "philosophical" books, the Combinatorial Art and the Théodicée. (He published numerous pamphlets, often anonymous, on behalf of the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg, most notably the "De jure suprematum" a major consideration of the nature of sovereignty.) One substantial book appeared posthumously, his Nouveaux essais sur l'entendement humain, which Leibniz had withheld from publication after the death of John Locke. Only in 1895, when Bodemann completed his catalogue of Leibniz's manuscripts and correspondence, did the enormous extent of Leibniz's Nachlass become clear: about 15,000 letters to more than 1000 recipients plus more than 40,000 other items. Moreover, quite a few of these letters are of essay length. Much of his vast correspondence, especially the letters dated after 1700, remains unpublished, and much of what is published has appeared only in recent decades. The more than 67,000 records of the Leibniz Edition’s Catalogue cover almost all ofhis known writings and the letters from him and to him. The amount, variety, and disorder of Leibniz's writings are a predictable result of a situation he described in a letter as follows:  
      
       I cannot tell you how extraordinarily distracted and spread out I am. I am trying to find various things in the archives; I look at old papers and hunt up unpublished documents. From these I hope to shed some light on the history of the  Brunswick. I receive and answer a huge number of letters. At the same time, I have so many mathematical results, philosophical thoughts, and other literary innovations that should not be allowed to vanish that I often do not know where to begin.
       
      The extant parts of the critical edition of Leibniz's writings are organized as follows:  
      
       Series 1. Political, Historical, and General Correspondence. 25 vols., 1666–1706. 
       Series 2. Philosophical Correspondence. 3 vols., 1663–1700. 
       Series 3. Mathematical, Scientific, and Technical Correspondence. 8 vols., 1672–1698. 
       Series 4. Political Writings. 9 vols., 1667–1702. 
       Series 5. Historical and Linguistic Writings. In preparation. 
       Series 6. Philosophical Writings. 7 vols., 1663–90, and Nouveaux essais sur l'entendement humain. 
       Series 7. Mathematical Writings. 6 vols., 1672–76. 
       Series 8. Scientific, Medical, and Technical Writings. 1 vol., 1668–76.
       
      The systematic cataloguing of all of Leibniz's Nachlass began in 1901. It was hampered by two world wars and then by decades of German division into two states with the Cold War's "iron curtain" in between, separating scholars, and also scattering portions of his literary estates. The ambitious project has had to deal with writings in seven languages, contained in some 200,000 written and printed pages. In 1985 it was reorganized and included in a joint program of German federal and state (Länder) academies. Since then the branches in Potsdam, Münster, Hanover and Berlin have jointly published 57 volumes of the critical edition, with an average of 870 pages, and prepared index and concordance works.  
      Selected works 
      The year given is usually that in which the work was completed, not of its eventual publication.  
      
       1666 (publ. 1690). De Arte Combinatoria (On the Art of Combination); partially translated in Loemker §1 and Parkinson (1966). 
       1667. Nova Methodus Discendae Docendaeque Iurisprudentiae (A New Method for Learning and Teaching Jurisprudence). 
       1667. "Dialogus de connexione inter res et verba." 
       1671. Hypothesis Physica Nova (New Physical Hypothesis); Loemker §8.I (part). 
       1673 Confessio philosophi (A Philosopher's Creed); an English translation is available online. 
       Oct. 1684. "Meditationes de cognitione, veritate et ideis" ("Meditations on Knowledge, Truth, and Ideas"). 
       Nov. 1684. "Nova methodus pro maximis et minimis" ("New method for maximums and minimums"); translated in Struik, D. J., 1969. A Source Book in Mathematics, 1200–1800. Harvard University Press: 271–81. 
       1686. Discours de métaphysique; Martin and Brown (1988), Ariew and Garber 35, Loemker §35, Wiener III.3, Woolhouse and Francks 1. 
       1686. Generales inquisitiones de analysi notionum et veritatum (General Inquiries About the Analysis of Concepts and of Truths). 
       1694. "De primae philosophiae Emendatione, et de Notione Substantiae" ("On the Correction of First Philosophy and the Notion of Substance"). 
       1695. Système nouveau de la nature et de la communication des substances (New System of Nature). 
       1700. Accessiones historicae. 
       1703. "Explication de l'Arithmétique Binaire" ("Explanation of Binary Arithmetic"); Carl Immanuel Gerhardt, Mathematical Writings VII.223. An English translation by Lloyd Strickland is available online. 
       1704 (publ. 1765). Nouveaux essais sur l'entendement humain. Translated in: Remnant, Peter, and Bennett, Jonathan, trans., 1996. New Essays on Human Understanding Langley translation 1896. Cambridge University Press. Wiener III.6 (part). 
       1707–1710. Scriptores rerum Brunsvicensium (3 Vols.). 
       1710. Théodicée; Farrer, A. M., and Huggard, E. M., trans., 1985 (1952). Wiener III.11 (part). An English translation is available online at Project Gutenberg. 
       1714. "Principes de la nature et de la Grâce fondés en raison." 
       1714. Monadologie; translated by Nicholas Rescher, 1991. The Monadology: An Edition for Students. University of Pittsburgh Press. Ariew and Garber 213, Loemker §67, Wiener III.13, Woolhouse and Francks 19. An English translation by Robert Latta is available online.
       
      Posthumous works 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Commercium philosophicum et mathematicum (1745), a collection of letters between Leibnitz and Johann Bernoulli
        
       
       
      
       1717. Collectanea Etymologica, edited by the secretary of Leibniz Johann Georg von Eckhart 
       1749. Protogaea 
       1750. Origines Guelficae
       
      Collections 
      Six important collections of English translations are Wiener (1951), Parkinson (1966), Loemker (1969), Ariew and Garber (1989), Woolhouse and Francks (1998), and Strickland (2006). The ongoing critical edition of all of Leibniz's writings is Sämtliche Schriften und Briefe.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Biography portal 
        Mathematics portal 
        Philosophy portal 
        Science portal 
        Art portal 
        Literature portal
       
       
      
       General Leibniz rule 
       Leibniz Association 
       Leibniz operator 
       List of German inventors and discoverers 
       List of pioneers in computer science 
       List of things named after Gottfried Leibniz 
       Mathesis universalis 
       Scientific revolution 
       Leibniz University Hannover 
       Bartholomew Des Bosses 
       Joachim Bouvet 
       Outline of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
       Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz bibliography
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Sometimes "Leibnitz"  
         ^ Leibniz himself never attached von to his name and was never actually ennobled.  
         ^ /ˈlaɪbnɪts/ LYBE-nits, German:  or ; French: Godefroi Guillaume Leibnitz ; see inscription of the engraving depicted in the "1666–1676" section.  
         ^ There is no complete gathering of the writings of Leibniz translated into English.  
        
       
       
      References 
      Citations 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c Arthur 2014, p. 16.  
         ^ Michael Blamauer (ed.), The Mental as Fundamental: New Perspectives on Panpsychism, Walter de Gruyter, 2013, p. 111.  
         ^ Fumerton, Richard (21 February 2000). "Foundationalist Theories of Epistemic Justification". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 19 August 2018.  
         ^ Stefano Di Bella, Tad M. Schmaltz (eds.), The Problem of Universals in Early Modern Philosophy, Oxford University Press, 2017, p. 207 n. 25: "Leibniz's conceptualism  the Ockhamist tradition..."  
         ^ A. B. Dickerson, Kant on Representation and Objectivity, Cambridge University Press, 2003, p. 85.  
         ^ The Correspondence Theory of Truth (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)  
         ^ Kurt Huber, Leibniz: Der Philosoph der universalen Harmonie, Severus Verlag, 2014, p. 29.  
         ^ Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz at the Mathematics Genealogy Project  
         ^ a b Arthur 2014, p. 13.  
         ^ 
           McNab, John (1972). Towards a Theology of Social Concern: A Comparative Study of the Elements for Social Concern in the Writings of Frederick D. Maurice and Walter Rauschenbusch (PhD thesis). Montreal: McGill University. p.&nbsp;201. Retrieved 6 February 2019.  
         ^ "Leibniz" entry in Collins English Dictionary.  
         ^ 
           Mangold, Max, ed. (2005). Duden-Aussprachewörterbuch (Duden Pronunciation Dictionary) (in German) (7th&nbsp;ed.). Mannheim: Bibliographisches Institut GmbH. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-411-04066-7.  
         ^ 
           Wells, John C. (2008), Longman Pronunciation Dictionary (3rd&nbsp;ed.), Longman, ISBN&nbsp;9781405881180  
         ^ 
           Eva-Maria Krech; et&nbsp;al., eds. (2010). Deutsches Aussprachewörterbuch (German Pronunciation Dictionary) (in German) (1st&nbsp;ed.). Berlin: Walter de Gruyter GmbH &amp; Co. KG. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-11-018203-3.  
         ^ 
           Murray, Stuart A.P. (2009). The library&nbsp;: an illustrated history. New York, NY: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-60239-706-4.  
         ^ Roughly 40%, 35% and 25%, respectively.www.gwlb.de. Leibniz-Nachlass (i.e. Legacy of Leibniz), Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Bibliothek (one of the three Official Libraries of the German state Lower Saxony).  
         ^ 
           Baird, Forrest E.; Kaufmann, Walter (2008). From Plato to Derrida. Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-158591-1.  
         ^ 
           Russell, Bertrand (15 April 2013). History of Western Philosophy: Collectors Edition (revised&nbsp;ed.). Routledge. p.&nbsp;469. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-135-69284-1. Extract of page 469.  
         ^ 
           Handley, Lindsey D.; Foster, Stephen R. (2020). Don't Teach Coding: Until You Read This Book. John Wiley &amp; Sons. p.&nbsp;29. ISBN&nbsp;9781119602620. Extract of page 29  
         ^ 
           Apostol, Tom M. (1991). Calculus, Volume 1 (illustrated&nbsp;ed.). John Wiley &amp; Sons. p.&nbsp;172. ISBN&nbsp;9780471000051. Extract of page 172  
         ^ 
           Maor, Eli (2003). The Facts on File Calculus Handbook. The Facts on File Calculus Handbook. p.&nbsp;58. ISBN&nbsp;9781438109541. Extract of page 58  
         ^ David Smith, pp. 173–181 (1929)  
         ^ 
           "2021: 375th birthday of Leibniz, father of computer science". people.idsia.ch.  
         ^ It is possible that the words "in Aquarius" refer to the Moon (the Sun in Cancer; Sagittarius rising (Ascendant)); see Astro-Databank chart of Gottfried Leibniz.  
         ^ The original has "1/4 uff 7 uhr" and there is good reason to assume that also in the 17th century this meant a quarter to seven, since the "uff", in its modern form of "auf", is still, as of 2018 exactly in this vernacular, in use in several Low German speaking regions. The quote is given by Hartmut Hecht in Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (Teubner-Archiv zur Mathematik, Volume 2, 1992), in the first lines of chapter 2, Der junge Leibniz, p. 15; see H. Hecht, Der junge Leibniz; see also G. E. Guhrauer, G. W. Frhr. v. Leibnitz. Vol. 1. Breslau 1846, Anm. p. 4.  
         ^ Kurt Müller, Gisela Krönert, Leben und Werk von Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz: Eine Chronik. Frankfurt a.M., Klostermann 1969, p. 3.  
         ^ 
           Mates, Benson (1989). The Philosophy of Leibniz: Metaphysics and Language. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-505946-5.  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 21  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 22  
         ^ 
           "Leibniz biography". www-history.mcs.st-andrews.ac.uk. Retrieved 8 May 2018.  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 26  
         ^ a b c d e Arthur 2014, p. x.  
         ^ Hubertus Busche, Leibniz' Weg ins perspektivische Universum: Eine Harmonie im Zeitalter der Berechnung, Meiner Verlag, 1997, p. 120.  
         ^ A few copies of De Arte Combinatoria were produced as requested for the habilitation procedure; it was reprinted without his consent in 1690.  
         ^ 
           Jolley, Nicholas (1995). The Cambridge Companion to Leibniz. Cambridge University Press.:20  
         ^ 
           Simmons, George (2007). Calculus Gems: Brief Lives and Memorable Mathematics. MAA.:143  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 38  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 39  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 40  
         ^ Aiton 1985: 312  
         ^ Ariew R., G.W. Leibniz, life and works, p. 21 in The Cambridge Companion to Leibniz, ed. by N. Jolley, Cambridge University Press, 1994, 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-521-36588-0. Extract of page 21  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 43  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 44–45  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 58–61  
         ^ 
           Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. 2017.  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 69–70  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 73–74  
         ^ a b 
           Davis, Martin (2018). The Universal Computer&nbsp;: The Road from Leibniz to Turing. CRC Press. p.&nbsp;9. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-138-50208-6.  
         ^ On the encounter between Newton and Leibniz and a review of the evidence, see Alfred Rupert Hall, Philosophers at War: The Quarrel Between Newton and Leibniz, (Cambridge, 2002), pp. 44–69.  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 117–118  
         ^ For a study of Leibniz's correspondence with Sophia Charlotte, see MacDonald Ross, George, 1990, "Leibniz's Exposition of His System to Queen Sophie Charlotte and Other Ladies." In Leibniz in Berlin, ed. H. Poser and A. Heinekamp, Stuttgart: Franz Steiner, 1990, 61–69.  
         ^ Mackie (1845), 109  
         ^ 
           Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm Freiherr von (1920). The Early Mathematical Manuscripts of Leibniz: Translated from the Latin Texts Published by Carl Immanuel Gerhardt with Critical and Historical Notes. Open court publishing Company.  
         ^ See Wiener IV.6 and Loemker §40. Also see a curious passage titled "Leibniz's Philosophical Dream", first published by Bodemann in 1895 and translated on p. 253 of Morris, Mary, ed. and trans., 1934. Philosophical Writings. Dent &amp; Sons Ltd.  
         ^ 
           "Christian Mathematicians – Leibniz – God &amp; Math – Thinking Christianly About Math Education". 31 January 2012.  
         ^ 
           Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (2012). Loptson, Peter (ed.). Discourse on Metaphysics and Other Writings. Broadview Press. pp.&nbsp;23–24. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55481-011-6. The answer is unknowable, but it may not be unreasonable to see him, at least in theological terms, as essentially a deist. He is a determinist: there are no miracles (the events so called being merely instances of infrequently occurring natural laws); Christ has no real role in the system; we live forever, and hence we carry on after our deaths, but then everything—every individual substance—carries on forever. Nonetheless, Leibniz is a theist. His system is generated from, and needs, the postulate of a creative god. In fact, though, despite Leibniz's protestations, his God is more the architect and engineer of the vast complex world-system than the embodiment of love of Christian orthodoxy.  
         ^ 
           Christopher Ernest Cosans (2009). Owen's Ape &amp; Darwin's Bulldog: Beyond Darwinism and Creationism. Indiana University Press. pp.&nbsp;102–103. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-253-22051-6. In advancing his system of mechanics, Newton claimed that collisions of celestial objects would cause a loss of energy that would require God to intervene from time to time to maintain order in the solar system (Vailati 1997, 37–42). In criticizing this implication, Leibniz remarks: "Sir Isaac Newton and his followers have also a very odd opinion concerning the work of God. According to their doctrine, God Almighty wants to wind up his watch from time to time; otherwise it would cease to move." (Leibniz 1715, 675) Leibniz argues that any scientific theory that relies on God to perform miracles after He had first made the universe indicates that God lacked sufficient foresight or power to establish adequate natural laws in the first place. In defense of Newton's theism, Clarke is unapologetic: "'tis not a diminution but the true glory of his workmanship that nothing is done without his continual government and inspection"' (Leibniz 1715, 676–677). Clarke is believed to have consulted closely with Newton on how to respond to Leibniz. He asserts that Leibniz's deism leads to "the notion of materialism and fate" (1715, 677), because it excludes God from the daily workings of nature.  
         ^ 
           Hunt, Shelby D. (2003). Controversy in Marketing Theory: For Reason, Realism, Truth, and Objectivity. M. E. Sharpe. p.&nbsp;33. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7656-0931-1. Consistent with the liberal views of the Enlightenment, Leibniz was an optimist with respect to human reasoning and scientific progress (Popper 1963, p. 69). Although he was a great reader and admirer of Spinoza, Leibniz, being a confirmed deist, rejected emphatically Spinoza's pantheism: God and nature, for Leibniz, were not simply two different "labels" for the same "thing".  
         ^ Leibniz on the Trinity and the Incarnation: Reason and Revelation in the Seventeenth Century (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2007, pp. xix–xx).  
         ^ Ariew &amp; Garber, 69; Loemker, §§36, 38  
         ^ Ariew &amp; Garber, 138; Loemker, §47; Wiener, II.4  
         ^ Later translated as Loemker 267 and Woolhouse and Francks 30  
         ^ A VI, 4, n. 324, pp. 1643–1649 with the title: Principia Logico-Metaphysica  
         ^ Ariew &amp; Garber, 272–284; Loemker, §§14, 20, 21; Wiener, III.8  
         ^ Mates (1986), chpts. 7.3, 9  
         ^ Loemker 717  
         ^ See Jolley (1995: 129–131), Woolhouse and Francks (1998), and Mercer (2001).  
         ^ a b Gottfried Leibniz, New Essays, IV, 16: "la nature ne fait jamais des sauts". Natura non-facit saltus is the Latin translation of the phrase (originally put forward by Linnaeus' Philosophia Botanica, 1st ed., 1751, Chapter III, § 77, p. 27; see also Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: "Continuity and Infinitesimals" and Alexander Baumgarten, Metaphysics: A Critical Translation with Kant's Elucidations, Translated and Edited by Courtney D. Fugate and John Hymers, Bloomsbury, 2013, "Preface of the Third Edition (1750)", p. 79 n.d.: " must also have in mind Leibniz's "natura non-facit saltus " (NE IV, 16)."). A variant translation is "natura non-saltum facit" (literally, "Nature does not make a jump") (
           Britton, Andrew; Sedgwick, Peter H.; Bock, Burghard (2008). Ökonomische Theorie und christlicher Glaube. LIT Verlag Münster. p.&nbsp;289. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-8258-0162-5. Extract of page 289.)  
         ^ Loemker 311  
         ^ Arthur Lovejoy, The Great Chain of Being. Harvard University Press, 1936, Chapter V "Plenitude and Sufficient Reason in Leibniz and Spinoza", pp.&nbsp;144–182.  
         ^ For a precis of what Leibniz meant by these and other Principles, see Mercer (2001: 473–484). For a classic discussion of Sufficient Reason and Plenitude, see Lovejoy (1957).  
         ^ 
           O'Leary-Hawthorne, John; Cover, J. A. (4 September 2008). Substance and Individuation in Leibniz. Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;65. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-07303-5.  
         ^ 
           Rescher, Nicholas (1991). G. W. Leibniz's Monadology: an edition for students. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press. p.&nbsp;40. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8229-5449-1.  
         ^ 
           Ferraro, Rafael (2007). Einstein's Space-Time: An Introduction to Special and General Relativity. Springer. p.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-387-69946-2.  
         ^ a b See H. G. Alexander, ed., The Leibniz-Clarke Correspondence, Manchester: Manchester University Press, pp. 25–26.  
         ^ 
           Agassi, Joseph (September 1969). "Leibniz's Place in the History of Physics". Journal of the History of Ideas. 30 (3): 331–344. doi:10.2307/2708561. JSTOR&nbsp;2708561.  
         ^ a b 
           Perkins, Franklin (10 July 2007). Leibniz: A Guide for the Perplexed. Bloomsbury Academic. p.&nbsp;22. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8264-8921-0.  
         ^ 
           Perkins, Franklin (10 July 2007). Leibniz: A Guide for the Perplexed. Bloomsbury Academic. p.&nbsp;23. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8264-8921-0.  
         ^ Rutherford (1998) is a detailed scholarly study of Leibniz's theodicy.  
         ^ Magill, Frank (ed.). Masterpieces of World Philosophy. New York: Harper Collins (1990).  
         ^ Magill, Frank (ed.) (1990)  
         ^ 
           Anderson Csiszar, Sean (26 July 2015). The Golden Book About Leibniz. p.&nbsp;20. ISBN&nbsp;978-1515243915.  
         ^ Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm. Discourse on Metaphysics. The Rationalists: Rene Descartes – Discourse on Method, Meditations. N.Y.: Dolphin., n.d., n.p.,  
         ^ Monadologie (1714). Nicholas Rescher, trans., 1991. The Monadology: An Edition for Students. Uni. of Pittsburgh Press, p. 135.  
         ^ 
           "The Fundamental Question". hedweb.com. Retrieved 26 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Geier, Manfred (17 February 2017). Wittgenstein und Heidegger: Die letzten Philosophen (in German). Rowohlt Verlag. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-644-04511-8. Retrieved 26 April 2017.  
         ^ The Art of Discovery 1685, Wiener 51  
         ^ Many of his memoranda are translated in Parkinson 1966.  
         ^ Marcelo Dascal, Leibniz. Language, Signs and Thought: A Collection of Essays (Foundations of Semiotics series), John Benjamins Publishing Company, 1987, p. 42.  
         ^ Loemker, however, who translated some of Leibniz's works into English, said that the symbols of chemistry were real characters, so there is disagreement among Leibniz scholars on this point.  
         ^ Preface to the General Science, 1677. Revision of Rutherford's translation in Jolley 1995: 234. Also Wiener I.4  
         ^ A good introductory discussion of the "characteristic" is Jolley (1995: 226–240). An early, yet still classic, discussion of the "characteristic" and "calculus" is Couturat (1901: chpts. 3, 4).  
         ^ Lenzen, W., 2004, "Leibniz's Logic," in Handbook of the History of Logic by D. M. Gabbay/J. Woods (eds.), volume 3: The Rise of Modern Logic: From Leibniz to Frege, Amsterdam et al.: Elsevier-North-Holland, pp. 1–83.  
         ^ 
           Russell, Bertrand (1900). A Critical Exposition of the Philosophy of Leibniz. The University Press, Cambridge.  
         ^ Leibniz: Die philosophischen Schriften VII, 1890, pp. 236–247; translated as "A Study in the Calculus of Real Addition" (1690) by G. H. R. Parkinson, Leibniz: Logical Papers – A Selection, Oxford 1966, pp. 131–144.  
         ^ Edward N. Zalta, "A (Leibnizian) Theory of Concepts", Philosophiegeschichte und logische Analyse / Logical Analysis and History of Philosophy, 3 (2000): 137–183.  
         ^ 
           Lenzen, Wolfgang. "Leibniz: Logic". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy.  
         ^ Jesse Alama, Paul E. Oppenheimer, Edward N. Zalta, "Automating Leibniz's Theory of Concepts", in A. Felty and A. Middeldorp (eds.), Automated Deduction – CADE 25: Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Automated Deduction (Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence: Volume 9195), Berlin: Springer, 2015, pp. 73–97.  
         ^ Struik (1969), 367  
         ^ a b c 
           Agarwal, Ravi P; Sen, Syamal K (2014). Creators of Mathematical and Computational Sciences. Springer, Cham. p.&nbsp;186. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-10870-4.  
         ^ 
           Leader, editor, Timothy Gowers; associate editors, June Barrow-Green, Imre (2008). The Princeton Companion to Mathematics. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;745. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-11880-2. }: |first1= has generic name (help)  
         ^ 
           Jesseph, Douglas M. (1998). "Leibniz on the Foundations of the Calculus: The Question of the Reality of Infinitesimal Magnitudes". Perspectives on Science. 6.1&amp;2: 6–40. Retrieved 31 December 2011.  
         ^ 
           Goldstine, Herman H. (1972). The Computer from Pascal to von Neumann. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;8. ISBN&nbsp;0-691-08104-2.  
         ^ 
           Jones, Matthew L. (1 October 2006). The Good Life in the Scientific Revolution: Descartes, Pascal, Leibniz, and the Cultivation of Virtue. University of Chicago Press. pp.&nbsp;237–239. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-40955-9.  
         ^ 
           Agarwal, Ravi P; Sen, Syamal K (2014). Creators of Mathematical and Computational Sciences. Springer, Cham. p.&nbsp;180. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-10870-4.  
         ^ a b 
           Gowers, Timothy; Barrow-Green, June; Leader, Imre, eds. (2008). The Princeton Companion to Mathematics. Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;744. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-11880-2.  
         ^ 
           Knobloch, Eberhard (13 March 2013). Leibniz's Theory of Elimination and Determinants. Springer. pp.&nbsp;230–237. ISBN&nbsp;978-4-431-54272-8.  
         ^ 
           Concise Dictionary of Mathematics. V&amp;S Publishers. April 2012. pp.&nbsp;113–114. ISBN&nbsp;978-93-81588-83-3.  
         ^ 
           Lay, David C. (2012). Linear algebra and its applications (4th&nbsp;ed.). Boston: Addison-Wesley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-321-38517-8.  
         ^ 
           Tokuyama, Takeshi; et&nbsp;al. (2007). Algorithms and Computation: 18th International Symposium, ISAAC 2007, Sendai, Japan, December 17–19, 2007&nbsp;: proceedings. Berlin : Springer. p.&nbsp;599. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-77120-3.  
         ^ 
           Jones, Matthew L. (2006). The Good Life in the Scientific Revolution&nbsp;: Descartes, Pascal, Leibniz, and the Cultivation of Virtue (&nbsp;ed.). Chicago : Univ. of Chicago Press. p.&nbsp;169. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-40954-2.  
         ^ 
           Davis, Martin (28 February 2018). The Universal Computer&nbsp;: The Road from Leibniz to Turing, Third Edition. CRC Press. p.&nbsp;7. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-138-50208-6.  
         ^ 
           De Risi, Vincenzo (2016). Leibniz on the Parallel Postulate and the Foundations of Geometry. p.&nbsp;4. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-19863-7.  
         ^ 
           De Risi, Vincenzo (10 February 2016). Leibniz on the Parallel Postulate and the Foundations of Geometry. Birkhäuser, Cham. p.&nbsp;58. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-19862-0.  
         ^ 
           Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm Freiherr von; Gerhardt, Carl Immanuel (trans.) (1920). The Early Mathematical Manuscripts of Leibniz. Open Court Publishing. p.&nbsp;93. Retrieved 10 November 2013.  
         ^ For an English translation of this paper, see Struik (1969: 271–284), who also translates parts of two other key papers by Leibniz on calculus.  
         ^ Dirk Jan Struik, A Source Book in Mathematics (1969) pp.&nbsp;282–284  
         ^ Supplementum geometriae dimensoriae, seu generalissima omnium tetragonismorum effectio per motum: similiterque multiplex constructio lineae ex data tangentium conditione, Acta Euriditorum (Sep. 1693) pp. 385–392  
         ^ John Stillwell, Mathematics and its History (1989, 2002) p.159  
         ^ 
           Katz, Mikhail; Sherry, David (2012), "Leibniz's Infinitesimals: Their Fictionality, Their Modern Implementations, and Their Foes from Berkeley to Russell and Beyond", Erkenntnis, 78 (3): 571–625, arXiv:1205.0174, doi:10.1007/s10670-012-9370-y, S2CID&nbsp;119329569  
         ^ 
           Dauben, Joseph W (December 2003). "Mathematics, ideology, and the politics of infinitesimals: mathematical logic and nonstandard analysis in modern China". History and Philosophy of Logic. 24 (4): 327–363. doi:10.1080/01445340310001599560. ISSN&nbsp;0144-5340. S2CID&nbsp;120089173.  
         ^ 
           Hockney, Mike (29 March 2016). How to Create the Universe. Lulu Press, Inc. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-326-61200-9.  
         ^ Loemker §27  
         ^ Mates (1986), 240  
         ^ 
           Hirano, Hideaki. "Leibniz's Cultural Pluralism And Natural Law". Archived from the original on 22 May 2009. Retrieved 10 March 2010.  
         ^ Mandelbrot (1977), 419. Quoted in Hirano (1997).  
         ^ Ariew and Garber 117, Loemker §46, W II.5. On Leibniz and physics, see the chapter by Garber in Jolley (1995) and Wilson (1989).  
         ^ Futch, Michael. Leibniz's Metaphysics of Time and Space. New York: Springer, 2008.  
         ^ Ray, Christopher. Time, Space and Philosophy. London: Routledge, 1991.  
         ^ Rickles, Dean. Symmetry, Structure and Spacetime. Oxford: Elsevier, 2008.  
         ^ a b Arthur 2014, p. 56.  
         ^ See Ariew and Garber 155–86, Loemker §§53–55, W II.6–7a  
         ^ On Leibniz and biology, see Loemker (1969a: VIII).  
         ^ L. E. Loemker: Introduction to Philosophical papers and letters: A selection. Gottfried W. Leibniz (transl. and ed., by Leroy E. Loemker). Dordrecht: Riedel (2nd ed. 1969).  
         ^ T. Verhave: Contributions to the history of psychology: III. G. W. Leibniz (1646–1716). On the Association of Ideas and Learning. Psychological Report, 1967, Vol. 20, 11–116.  
         ^ R. E. Fancher &amp; H. Schmidt: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz: Underappreciated pioneer of psychology. In: G. A. Kimble &amp; M. Wertheimer (Eds.). Portraits of pioneers in psychology, Vol. V. American Psychological Association, Washington, DC, 2003, pp. 1–17.  
         ^ 
           Leibniz, G. W. (2007) . The Principles of Philosophy known as Monadology. Translated by Jonathan Bennett. p.&nbsp;11.  
         ^ Larry M. Jorgensen, The Principle of Continuity and Leibniz's Theory of Consciousness.  
         ^ The German scholar Johann Thomas Freigius was the first to use this Latin term 1574 in print: Quaestiones logicae et ethicae, Basel, Henricpetri.  
         ^ Leibniz, Nouveaux essais, 1765, Livre II, Des Idées, Chapitre 1, § 6. New Essays on Human Understanding Book 2. p. 36; transl. by Jonathan Bennett, 2009.  
         ^ Wundt: Leibniz zu seinem zweihundertjährigen Todestag, 14. November 1916. Alfred Kröner Verlag, Leipzig 1917.  
         ^ Wundt (1917), p. 117.  
         ^ Fahrenberg, J. (2017) The influence of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz on the Psychology, philosophy, and Ethics of Wilhelm Wundt PsyDok ZPID .  
         ^ D. Brett King, Wayne Viney and William Woody. A History of Psychology: Ideas and Context (2009), 150–153.  
         ^ Nicholls and Leibscher Thinking the Unconscious: Nineteenth-Century German Thought (2010), 6.  
         ^ Nicholls and Leibscher (2010).  
         ^ King et al. (2009), 150–153.  
         ^ 
           Klempe, SH (2011). "The role of tone sensation and musical stimuli in early experimental psychology". Journal of the History of the Behavioral Sciences. 47 (2): 187–199. doi:10.1002/jhbs.20495. PMID&nbsp;21462196.  
         ^ Aiton (1985), 107–114, 136  
         ^ Davis (2000) discusses Leibniz's prophetic role in the emergence of calculating machines and of formal languages.  
         ^ See Couturat (1901): 473–478.  
         ^ 
           Ryan, James A. (1996). "Leibniz' Binary System and Shao Yong's "Yijing"". Philosophy East and West. 46 (1): 59–90. doi:10.2307/1399337. JSTOR&nbsp;1399337.  
         ^ 
           Ares, J.; Lara, J.; Lizcano, D.; Martínez, M. (2017). "Who Discovered the Binary System and Arithmetic? Did Leibniz Plagiarize Caramuel?". Science and Engineering Ethics. 24 (1): 173–188. doi:10.1007/s11948-017-9890-6. hdl:20.500.12226/69. PMID&nbsp;28281152. S2CID&nbsp;35486997.  
         ^ 
           Navarro-Loidi, Juan (May 2008). "The Introductions of Logarithms into Spain". Historia Mathematica. 35 (2): 83–101. doi:10.1016/j.hm.2007.09.002.  
         ^ 
           Booth, Michael (2003). "Thomas Harriot's Translations". The Yale Journal of Criticism. 16 (2): 345–361. doi:10.1353/yale.2003.0013. ISSN&nbsp;0893-5378. S2CID&nbsp;161603159.  
         ^ 
           Lande, Daniel. "Development of the Binary Number System and the Foundations of Computer Science". The Mathematics Enthusiast: 513–540.  
         ^ Wiener, N., Cybernetics (2nd edition with revisions and two additional chapters), The MIT Press and Wiley, New York, 1961, p. 12.  
         ^ 
           Wiener, Norbert (1948). "Time, Communication, and the Nervous System". Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. 50 (4 Teleological): 197–220. Bibcode:1948NYASA..50..197W. doi:10.1111/j.1749-6632.1948.tb39853.x. PMID&nbsp;18886381. S2CID&nbsp;28452205.  
         ^ Couturat (1901), 115  
         ^ See N. Rescher, Leibniz and Cryptography (Pittsburgh, University Library Systems, University of Pittsburgh, 2012).  
         ^ "The discoveries of principle of the calculus in Acta Eruditorum" (commentary, pp. 60–61), translated by Pierre Beaudry, amatterofmind.org, Leesburg, Va., September 2000. (pdf)  
         ^ 
           "The Reality Club: Wake Up Call for Europe Tech". www.edge.org. Archived from the original on 28 December 2005. Retrieved 11 January 2006.  
         ^ 
           Agarwal, Ravi P; Sen, Syamal K (2014). Creators of Mathematical and Computational Sciences. Springer, Cham. p.&nbsp;28. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-10870-4.  
         ^ 
           "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz | Biography &amp; Facts". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 18 February 2019.  
         ^ a b 
           Schulte-Albert, H. (April 1971). "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Library Classification". The Journal of Library History. 6 (2): 133–152. JSTOR&nbsp;25540286.  
         ^ On Leibniz's projects for scientific societies, see Couturat (1901), App. IV.  
         ^ See, for example, Ariew and Garber 19, 94, 111, 193; Riley 1988; Loemker §§2, 7, 20, 29, 44, 59, 62, 65; W I.1, IV.1–3  
         ^ See (in order of difficulty) Jolley (2005: ch. 7), Gregory Brown's chapter in Jolley (1995), Hostler (1975), and Riley (1996).  
         ^ Loemker: 59, fn 16. Translation revised.  
         ^ Loemker: 58, fn 9  
         ^ 
           Andrés-Gallego, José (2015). "Are Humanism and Mixed Methods Related? Leibniz's Universal (Chinese) Dream". Journal of Mixed Methods Research. 29 (2): 118–132. doi:10.1177/1558689813515332. S2CID&nbsp;147266697.  
         ^ Perkins (2004), 117  
         ^ a b c 
           Mungello, David E. (1971). "Leibniz's Interpretation of Neo-Confucianism". Philosophy East and West. 21 (1): 3–22. doi:10.2307/1397760. JSTOR&nbsp;1397760.  
         ^ On Leibniz, the I Ching, and binary numbers, see Aiton (1985: 245–248). Leibniz's writings on Chinese civilization are collected and translated in Cook and Rosemont (1994), and discussed in Perkins (2004).  
         ^ 
           Cook, Daniel (2015). "Leibniz, China, and the Problem of Pagan Wisdom". Philosophy East and West. 65 (3): 936–947. doi:10.1353/pew.2015.0074. S2CID&nbsp;170208696.  
         ^ 
           
           
            See also: Irenaean theodicy §&nbsp;Gottfried Leibniz
             
         ^ 
           "Vasilyev, 1993" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 February 2011. Retrieved 12 June 2010.  
         ^ Russell, 1900  
         ^ Jolley, 217–219  
         ^ 
           "Letters from and to Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz within the collection of manuscript papers of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz". UNESCO Memory of the World Programme. 16 May 2008. Archived from the original on 19 July 2010. Retrieved 15 December 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz's 372nd Birthday". Google Doodle Archive. 1 July 2018. Retrieved 23 July 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Musil, Steven (1 July 2018). "Google Doodle celebrates mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibni". CNET.  
         ^ 
           Smith, Kiona N. (30 June 2018). "Sunday's Google Doodle Celebrates Mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz". Forbes.  
         ^ Stephenson, Neal. "How the Baroque Cycle Began" in P.S. of Quicksilver Perennial ed. 2004.  
         ^ Letter to Vincent Placcius, 15 September 1695, in Louis Dutens (ed.), Gothofridi Guillemi Leibnitii Opera Omnia, vol. 6.1, 1768, pp. 59–60.  
         ^ a b www.leibniz-edition.de. See photograph there.  
         ^ a b c 
           Holland, Arthur William (1911). "Germany/History"&nbsp;. In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol.&nbsp;11 (11th&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;828–901, see page 899, para two. The two chief collections which were issued by the philosopher are the Accessiones historicae (1698-1700) and the Scriptores rerum Brunsvicensium.....  
        
       
       
      Sources 
      Bibliographies 
      
       Bodemann, Eduard, Die Leibniz-Handschriften der Königlichen öffentlichen Bibliothek zu Hannover, 1895, (anastatic reprint: Hildesheim, Georg Olms, 1966). 
       Bodemann, Eduard, Der Briefwechsel des Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in der Königlichen öffentliche Bibliothek zu Hannover, 1895, (anastatic reprint: Hildesheim, Georg Olms, 1966). 
       Ravier, Émile, Bibliographie des œuvres de Leibniz, Paris: Alcan, 1937 (anastatic reprint Hildesheim: Georg Olms, 1966). 
       Heinekamp, Albert and Mertens, Marlen. Leibniz-Bibliographie. Die Literatur über Leibniz bis 1980, Frankfurt: Vittorio Klostermann, 1984. 
       Heinekamp, Albert and Mertens, Marlen. Leibniz-Bibliographie. Die Literatur über Leibniz. Band II: 1981–1990, Frankfurt: Vittorio Klostermann, 1996.
       
      An updated bibliography of more than 25.000 titles is available at Leibniz Bibliographie.  
      Primary literature (chronologically) 
      
       Wiener, Philip, (ed.), 1951. Leibniz: Selections. Scribner. 
       Schrecker, Paul &amp; Schrecker, Anne Martin, (eds.), 1965. Monadology and other Philosophical Essays. Prentice-Hall. 
       Parkinson, G. H. R. (ed.), 1966. Logical Papers. Clarendon Press. 
       Mason, H. T. &amp; Parkinson, G. H. R. (eds.), 1967. The Leibniz-Arnauld Correspondence. Manchester University Press. 
       Loemker, Leroy, (ed.), 1969 . Leibniz: Philosophical Papers and Letters. Reidel. 
       Morris, Mary &amp; Parkinson, G. H. R. (eds.), 1973. Philosophical Writings. Everyman’s University Library. 
       Riley, Patrick, (ed.), 1988. Leibniz: Political Writings. Cambridge University Press. 
       Niall, R. Martin, D. &amp; Brown, Stuart (eds.), 1988. Discourse on Metaphysics and Related Writings. Manchester University Press. 
       Ariew, Roger and Garber, Daniel. (eds.), 1989. Leibniz: Philosophical Essays. Hackett. 
       Rescher, Nicholas (ed.), 1991. G. W. Leibniz’s Monadology. An Edition for Students, University of Pittsburgh Press. 
       Rescher, Nicholas, On Leibniz, (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2013). 
       Parkinson, G. H. R. (ed.) 1992. De Summa Rerum. Metaphysical Papers, 1675–1676. Yale University Press. 
       Cook, Daniel, &amp; Rosemont, Henry Jr., (eds.), 1994. Leibniz: Writings on China. Open Court. 
       Farrer, Austin (ed.), 1995. Theodicy, Open Court. 
       Remnant, Peter, &amp; Bennett, Jonathan, (eds.), 1996 (1981). Leibniz: New Essays on Human Understanding. Cambridge University Press. 
       Woolhouse, R. S., and Francks, R., (eds.), 1997. Leibniz's 'New System' and Associated Contemporary Texts. Oxford University Press. 
       Woolhouse, R. S., and Francks, R., (eds.), 1998. Leibniz: Philosophical Texts. Oxford University Press. 
       Ariew, Roger, (ed.), 2000. G. W. Leibniz and Samuel Clarke: Correspondence. Hackett. 
       Richard T. W. Arthur, (ed.), 2001. The Labyrinth of the Continuum: Writings on the Continuum Problem, 1672–1686. Yale University Press. 
       Richard T. W. Arthur, 2014. Leibniz. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 
       Robert C. Sleigh Jr., (ed.), 2005. Confessio Philosophi: Papers Concerning the Problem of Evil, 1671–1678. Yale University Press. 
       Dascal, Marcelo (ed.), 2006. "G. W. Leibniz. The Art of Controversies’’, Springer. 
       Strickland, Lloyd, 2006 (ed.). The Shorter Leibniz Texts: A Collection of New Translations. Continuum. 
       Look, Brandon and Rutherford, Donald (eds.), 2007. The Leibniz-Des Bosses Correspondence, Yale University Press. 
       Cohen, Claudine and Wakefield, Andre, (eds.), 2008. Protogaea. University of Chicago Press. 
       Murray, Michael, (ed.) 2011. Dissertation on Predestination and Grace, Yale University Press. 
       Strickand, Lloyd (ed.), 2011. Leibniz and the two Sophies. The Philosophical Correspondence, Toronto. 
       Lodge, Paul (ed.), 2013. The Leibniz-De Volder Correspondence: With Selections from the Correspondence Between Leibniz and Johann Bernoulli, Yale University Press. 
       Artosi, Alberto, Pieri, Bernardo, Sartor, Giovanni (eds.), 2014. Leibniz: Logico-Philosophical Puzzles in the Law, Springer. 
       De Iuliis, Carmelo Massimo, (ed.), 2017. Leibniz: The New Method of Learning and Teaching Jurisprudence, Talbot, Clark NJ.
       
      Secondary literature up to 1950 
      
       Du Bois-Reymond, Emil, 1912. Leibnizsche Gedanken in der neueren Naturwissenschaft, Berlin: Dummler, 1871 (reprinted in Reden, Leipzig: Veit, vol. 1). 
       Couturat, Louis, 1901. La Logique de Leibniz. Paris: Felix Alcan. 
       Heidegger, Martin, 1983. The Metaphysical Foundations of Logic. Indiana University Press (lecture course, 1928). 
       Lovejoy, Arthur O., 1957 (1936). "Plenitude and Sufficient Reason in Leibniz and Spinoza" in his The Great Chain of Being. Harvard University Press: 144–182. Reprinted in Frankfurt, H. G., (ed.), 1972. Leibniz: A Collection of Critical Essays. Anchor Books 1972. 
       Mackie, John Milton; Guhrauer, Gottschalk Eduard, 1845. Life of Godfrey William von Leibnitz. Gould, Kendall and Lincoln. 
       Russell, Bertrand, 1900, A Critical Exposition of the Philosophy of Leibniz, Cambridge: The University Press. 
       
        Smith, David Eugene (1929). A Source Book in Mathematics. New York and London: McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc. 
       Trendelenburg, F. A., 1857, "Über Leibnizens Entwurf einer allgemeinen Charakteristik," Philosophische Abhandlungen der Königlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Aus dem Jahr 1856, Berlin: Commission Dümmler, pp.&nbsp;36–69. 
       
        Adolphus William Ward (1911), Leibniz as a Politician: The Adamson Lecture, 1910 (1st&nbsp;ed.), Manchester, Wikidata&nbsp;Q19095295 (lecture)
       
      Secondary literature post-1950 
      
       Adams, Robert Merrihew. 1994. Leibniz: Determinist, Theist, Idealist. New York: Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
       Aiton, Eric J., 1985. Leibniz: A Biography. Hilger (UK). 
       Maria Rosa Antognazza, 2008. Leibniz: An Intellectual Biography. Cambridge Univ. Press. 
       
        Barrow, John D.; Tipler, Frank J. (1986). The Anthropic Cosmological Principle (1st&nbsp;ed.). Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-282147-8. LCCN&nbsp;87028148. 
       
        Bos, H. J. M. (1974). "Differentials, higher-order differentials and the derivative in the Leibnizian calculus". Archive for History of Exact Sciences. 14: 1–90. doi:10.1007/bf00327456. S2CID&nbsp;120779114. 
       Brown, Stuart (ed.), 1999. The Young Leibniz and His Philosophy (1646–76), Dordrecht, Kluwer. 
       Davis, Martin, 2000. The Universal Computer: The Road from Leibniz to Turing. WW Norton. 
       Deleuze, Gilles, 1993. The Fold: Leibniz and the Baroque. University of Minnesota Press. 
       Fahrenberg, Jochen, 2017. PsyDok ZPID The influence of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz on the Psychology, Philosophy, and Ethics of Wilhelm Wundt. 
       Fahrenberg, Jochen, 2020. Wilhelm Wundt (1832 – 1920). Introduction, Quotations, Reception, Commentaries, Attempts at Reconstruction. Pabst Science Publishers, Lengerich 2020, 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-95853-574-9. 
       Finster, Reinhard &amp; van den Heuvel, Gerd 2000. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. Mit Selbstzeugnissen und Bilddokumenten. 4. Auflage. Rowohlt, Reinbek bei Hamburg (Rowohlts Monographien, 50481), 
        ISBN&nbsp;3-499-50481-2. 
       Grattan-Guinness, Ivor, 1997. The Norton History of the Mathematical Sciences. W W Norton. 
       Hall, A. R., 1980. Philosophers at War: The Quarrel between Newton and Leibniz. Cambridge University Press. 
       Hamza, Gabor, 2005. "Le développement du droit privé européen". ELTE Eotvos Kiado Budapest. 
       
        Hoeflich, M. H. (1986). "Law &amp; Geometry: Legal Science from Leibniz to Langdell". American Journal of Legal History. 30 (2): 95–121. doi:10.2307/845705. JSTOR&nbsp;845705. 
       Hostler, John, 1975. Leibniz's Moral Philosophy. UK: Duckworth. 
       Ishiguro, Hidé 1990. Leibniz's Philosophy of Logic and Language. Cambridge University Press. 
       Jolley, Nicholas, (ed.), 1995. The Cambridge Companion to Leibniz. Cambridge University Press. 
       Kaldis, Byron, 2011. Leibniz' Argument for Innate Ideas in Just the Arguments: 100 of the Most Important Arguments in Western Philosophy edited by M Bruce &amp; S Barbone. Blackwell. 
       
        Karabell, Zachary (2003). Parting the desert: the creation of the Suez Canal. Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-375-40883-0. 
       LeClerc, Ivor (ed.), 1973. The Philosophy of Leibniz and the Modern World. Vanderbilt University Press. 
       
        Luchte, James (2006). "Mathesis and Analysis: Finitude and the Infinite in the Monadology of Leibniz". Heythrop Journal. 47 (4): 519–543. doi:10.1111/j.1468-2265.2006.00296.x. 
       Mates, Benson, 1986. The Philosophy of Leibniz: Metaphysics and Language. Oxford University Press. 
       Mercer, Christia, 2001. Leibniz's Metaphysics: Its Origins and Development. Cambridge University Press. 
       Perkins, Franklin, 2004. Leibniz and China: A Commerce of Light. Cambridge University Press. 
       Riley, Patrick, 1996. Leibniz's Universal Jurisprudence: Justice as the Charity of the Wise. Harvard University Press. 
       Rutherford, Donald, 1998. Leibniz and the Rational Order of Nature. Cambridge University Press. 
       Schulte-Albert, H. G. (1971). Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Library Classification. The Journal of Library History (1966–1972), (2). 133–152. 
       Smith, Justin E. H., 2011. Divine Machines. Leibniz and the Sciences of Life, Princeton University Press. 
       Wilson, Catherine, 1989. Leibniz's Metaphysics: A Historical and Comparative Study. Princeton University Press. 
       
        Zalta, E. N. (2000). "A (Leibnizian) Theory of Concepts" (PDF). Philosophiegeschichte und Logische Analyse / Logical Analysis and History of Philosophy. 3: 137–183. doi:10.30965/26664275-00301008.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article "Leibnitz, Gottfried Wilhelm".
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has original works written by or about:Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
         
       
       
      
       Works by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz at Project Gutenberg 
       Works by or about Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz at Internet Archive 
       Works by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  
       
        Look, Brandon C. "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz". In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Peckhaus, Volker. "Leibniz's Influence on 19th Century Logic". In Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Burnham, Douglas. "Gottfried Leibniz: Metaphysics". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Carlin, Laurence. "Gottfried Leibniz: Causation". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Lenzen, Wolfgang. "Leibniz: Logic". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews 
       Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz at the Mathematics Genealogy Project 
       Translations by Jonathan Bennett, of the New Essays, the exchanges with Bayle, Arnauld and Clarke, and about 15 shorter works. 
       Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz: Texts and Translations, compiled by Donald Rutherford, UCSD 
       Leibnitiana, links and resources edited by Gregory Brown, University of Houston 
       Philosophical Works of Leibniz translated by G.M. Duncan (1890) 
       The Best of All Possible Worlds: Nicholas Rescher Talks About Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz's "Versatility and Creativity" 
       "Protogæa" (1693, Latin, in Acta eruditorum) – Linda Hall Library 
       Protogaea (1749, German) – full digital facsimile from Linda Hall Library 
       Leibniz's (1768, 6-volume) Opera omnia – digital facsimile 
       Leibniz' arithmetical machine, 1710, online and analyzed on BibNum  
       Leibniz' binary numeral system, 'De progressione dyadica', 1679, online and analyzed on BibNum 
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
           
         
         
          
           
            Mathematics and
            philosophy
           
          
            
            
             Alternating series test 
             Best of all possible worlds 
             Calculus controversy 
             Calculus ratiocinator 
             Characteristica universalis 
             Difference 
             Identity of indiscernibles 
             Individuation 
             Law of continuity 
             Leibniz wheel 
             Leibniz's gap 
             Mathesis universalis 
             Pre-established harmony 
             Plenitude 
             Sufficient reason 
             Salva veritate 
             Theodicy 
             Transcendental law of homogeneity 
             Rationalism 
             Universal science 
             Vis viva 
             Well-founded phenomenon
             
           
         
         
          Works
          
            
            
             De Arte Combinatoria (1666) 
             Discourse on Metaphysics (1686) 
             New Essays on Human Understanding (1704) 
             Théodicée (1710) 
             Monadology (1714) 
             Leibniz–Clarke correspondence (1715–1716)
             
           
         
         
          
           
             Category
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Links to related articles
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Age of Enlightenment
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Topics
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        
                          
                          
                           Atheism 
                           Capitalism 
                           Civil liberties 
                           Counter-Enlightenment 
                           Critical thinking 
                           Deism 
                           Democracy 
                           Empiricism 
                           Encyclopédistes 
                           Enlightened absolutism 
                           Free markets 
                           Haskalah 
                           Humanism 
                           Human rights 
                           Liberalism 
                           Liberté, égalité, fraternité 
                           Methodological skepticism 
                           Nationalism 
                           Natural philosophy 
                           Objectivity 
                           Rationality 
                           Rationalism 
                           Reason 
                           Reductionism 
                           Sapere aude 
                           Science 
                           Scientific method 
                           Socialism 
                           Universality 
                           Weimar Classicism
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Thinkers
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        England
                        
                          
                          
                           Joseph Addison 
                           Anthony Ashley-Cooper 
                           Francis Bacon 
                           Jeremy Bentham 
                           Anthony Collins 
                           Edward Gibbon 
                           William Godwin 
                           James Harrington 
                           Robert Hooke 
                           Samuel Johnson 
                           John Locke 
                           John Milton 
                           Isaac Newton 
                           Alexander Pope 
                           Richard Price 
                           Joseph Priestley 
                           Joshua Reynolds 
                           Algernon Sidney 
                           Matthew Tindal 
                           John Trenchard 
                           Mary Wollstonecraft
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        France
                        
                          
                          
                           Jean le Rond d'Alembert 
                           René Louis d'Argenson 
                           Pierre Bayle 
                           Pierre Beaumarchais 
                           Nicolas Chamfort 
                           Émilie du Châtelet 
                           Étienne Bonnot de Condillac 
                           Marquis de Condorcet 
                           René Descartes 
                           Denis Diderot 
                           Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle 
                           Olympe de Gouges 
                           Claude Adrien Helvétius 
                           Baron d'Holbach 
                           Louis de Jaucourt 
                           Julien Offray de La Mettrie 
                           Antoine Lavoisier 
                           Georges-Louis Leclerc 
                           Gabriel Bonnot de Mably 
                           Sylvain Maréchal 
                           Jean Meslier 
                           Montesquieu 
                           Étienne-Gabriel Morelly 
                           Blaise Pascal 
                           François Quesnay 
                           Guillaume Thomas François Raynal 
                           Marquis de Sade 
                           Anne Robert Jacques Turgot 
                           Voltaire
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Geneva
                        
                          
                          
                           Firmin Abauzit 
                           Charles Bonnet 
                           Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui 
                           Jean-Louis de Lolme 
                           Pierre Prévost 
                           Jean-Jacques Rousseau 
                           Antoine-Jacques Roustan 
                           Horace Bénédict de Saussure 
                           Jacob Vernes 
                           Jacob Vernet
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Germany
                        
                          
                          
                           Justus Henning Böhmer 
                           Carl Friedrich Gauss 
                           Johann Wolfgang von Goethe 
                           Johann Gottfried von Herder 
                           Theodor Gottlieb von Hippel 
                           Wilhelm von Humboldt 
                           Immanuel Kant 
                           Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
                           Gotthold Ephraim Lessing 
                           Georg Christoph Lichtenberg 
                           Moses Mendelssohn 
                           Samuel von Pufendorf 
                           Friedrich Schiller 
                           Christian Thomasius 
                           Gabriel Wagner 
                           Christian Felix Weiße 
                           Adam Weishaupt 
                           Christoph Martin Wieland 
                           Thomas Wizenmann 
                           Christian Wolff
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Greece
                        
                          
                          
                           Neophytos Doukas 
                           Theoklitos Farmakidis 
                           Rigas Feraios 
                           Theophilos Kairis 
                           Adamantios Korais
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Ireland
                        
                          
                          
                           George Berkeley 
                           Robert Boyle 
                           Edmund Burke 
                           Jonathan Swift 
                           John Toland
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Italy
                        
                          
                          
                           Cesare Beccaria 
                           Gaetano Filangieri 
                           Ferdinando Galiani 
                           Luigi Galvani 
                           Antonio Genovesi 
                           Francesco Mario Pagano 
                           Giovanni Salvemini 
                           Pietro Verri 
                           Giambattista Vico
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Netherlands
                        
                          
                          
                           Balthasar Bekker 
                           Pieter de la Court 
                           Petrus Cunaeus 
                           Hugo Grotius 
                           François Hemsterhuis 
                           Christiaan Huygens 
                           Adriaan Koerbagh 
                           Frederik van Leenhof 
                           Antonie van Leeuwenhoek 
                           Bernard Nieuwentyt 
                           Baruch Spinoza 
                           Jan Swammerdam 
                           Hendrik Wyermars
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Poland
                        
                          
                          
                           Tadeusz Czacki 
                           Hugo Kołłątaj 
                           Stanisław Konarski 
                           Ignacy Krasicki 
                           Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz 
                           Stanisław August Poniatowski 
                           Jędrzej Śniadecki 
                           Stanisław Staszic 
                           Józef Wybicki 
                           Andrzej Stanisław Załuski 
                           Józef Andrzej Załuski
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Portugal
                        
                          
                          
                           Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Romania
                        
                          
                          
                           Ion Budai-Deleanu 
                           Dinicu Golescu 
                           Petru Maior 
                           Samuil Micu-Klein 
                           Gheorghe Șincai
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Russia
                        
                          
                          
                           Catherine II 
                           Denis Fonvizin 
                           Antiochus Kantemir 
                           Mikhail Kheraskov 
                           Mikhail Lomonosov 
                           Nikolay Novikov 
                           Alexander Radishchev 
                           Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Serbia
                        
                          
                          
                           Dositej Obradović 
                           Avram Mrazović
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Spain
                        
                          
                          
                           José Cadalso 
                           Charles III 
                           Benito Jerónimo Feijóo y Montenegro 
                           Leandro Fernández de Moratín 
                           Valentin de Foronda 
                           Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos 
                           Martín Sarmiento 
                           Diego de Torres Villarroel
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Scotland
                        
                          
                          
                           James Beattie 
                           Joseph Black 
                           Hugh Blair 
                           James Boswell 
                           James Burnett 
                           Robert Burns 
                           William Cullen 
                           Adam Ferguson 
                           Thomas Gordon 
                           David Hume 
                           Francis Hutcheson 
                           James Hutton 
                           James Mill 
                           John Millar 
                           Isaac Newton 
                           William Ogilvie 
                           John Playfair 
                           Thomas Reid 
                           Adam Smith 
                           Dugald Stewart
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        United States
                        
                          
                          
                           Benjamin Franklin 
                           Thomas Jefferson 
                           James Madison 
                           George Mason 
                           Thomas Paine
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                   
                   
                    Romanticism →
                    
                   
                     Category
                    
                  
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Infinitesimals
                 
               
               
                History
                
                  
                  
                   Adequality 
                   Leibniz's notation 
                   Integral symbol 
                   Criticism of nonstandard analysis 
                   The Analyst 
                   The Method of Mechanical Theorems 
                   Cavalieri's principle
                   
                 
                
                 
                  
                 
               
               
                Related branches
                
                  
                  
                   Nonstandard analysis 
                   Nonstandard calculus 
                   Internal set theory 
                   Synthetic differential geometry 
                   Smooth infinitesimal analysis 
                   Constructive nonstandard analysis 
                   Infinitesimal strain theory (physics)
                   
                 
               
               
                Formalizations
                
                  
                  
                   Differentials 
                   Hyperreal numbers 
                   Dual numbers 
                   Surreal numbers
                   
                 
               
               
                Individual concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Standard part function 
                   Transfer principle 
                   Hyperinteger 
                   Increment theorem 
                   Monad 
                   Internal set 
                   Levi-Civita field 
                   Hyperfinite set 
                   Law of continuity 
                   Overspill 
                   Microcontinuity 
                   Transcendental law of homogeneity
                   
                 
               
               
                Mathematicians
                
                  
                  
                   Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
                   Abraham Robinson 
                   Pierre de Fermat 
                   Augustin-Louis Cauchy 
                   Leonhard Euler
                   
                 
               
               
                Textbooks
                
                  
                  
                   Analyse des Infiniment Petits 
                   Elementary Calculus 
                   Cours d'Analyse
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                 
               
               
                Metaphysicians
                
                  
                  
                   Parmenides 
                   Plato 
                   Aristotle 
                   Plotinus 
                   Duns Scotus 
                   Thomas Aquinas 
                   Francisco Suárez 
                   Nicolas Malebranche 
                   René Descartes 
                   John Locke 
                   David Hume 
                   Thomas Reid 
                   Immanuel Kant 
                   Isaac Newton 
                   Arthur Schopenhauer 
                   Baruch Spinoza 
                   Georg W. F. Hegel 
                   George Berkeley 
                   Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
                   Christian Wolff 
                   Bernard Bolzano 
                   Hermann Lotze 
                   Henri Bergson 
                   Friedrich Nietzsche 
                   Charles Sanders Peirce 
                   Joseph Maréchal 
                   Ludwig Wittgenstein 
                   Martin Heidegger 
                   Alfred N. Whitehead 
                   Bertrand Russell 
                   G. E. Moore 
                   Gilles Deleuze 
                   Jean-Paul Sartre 
                   Gilbert Ryle 
                   Hilary Putnam 
                   P. F. Strawson 
                   R. G. Collingwood 
                   Rudolf Carnap 
                   Saul Kripke 
                   W. V. O. Quine 
                   G. E. M. Anscombe 
                   Donald Davidson 
                   Michael Dummett 
                   D. M. Armstrong 
                   David Lewis 
                   Alvin Plantinga 
                   Héctor-Neri Castañeda 
                   Peter van Inwagen 
                   Derek Parfit 
                   Alexius Meinong 
                   Ernst Mally 
                   Edward N. Zalta 
                   more ...
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Abstract object theory 
                   Action theory 
                   Anti-realism 
                   Determinism 
                   Dualism 
                   Enactivism 
                   Essentialism 
                   Existentialism 
                   Free will 
                   Idealism 
                   Libertarianism 
                   Liberty 
                   Materialism 
                   Meaning of life 
                   Monism 
                   Naturalism 
                   Nihilism 
                   Phenomenalism 
                   Realism 
                   Physicalism 
                   Platonic realism 
                   Relativism 
                   Scientific realism 
                   Solipsism 
                   Subjectivism 
                   Substance theory 
                   Truthmaker theory 
                   Type theory
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Abstract object 
                   Anima mundi 
                   Being 
                   Category of being 
                   Causality 
                   Causal closure 
                   Choice 
                   Cogito, ergo sum 
                   Concept 
                   Embodied cognition 
                   Essence 
                   Existence 
                   Experience 
                   Hypostatic abstraction 
                   Idea 
                   Identity 
                   Information 
                   Insight 
                   Intelligence 
                   Intention 
                   Linguistic modality 
                   Matter 
                   Meaning 
                   Memetics 
                   Mental representation 
                   Mind 
                   Motion 
                   Nature 
                   Necessity 
                   Notion 
                   Object 
                   Pattern 
                   Perception 
                   Physical object 
                   Principle 
                   Property 
                   Qualia 
                   Quality 
                   Reality 
                   Relation 
                   Soul 
                   Subject 
                   Substantial form 
                   Thought 
                   Time 
                   Truth 
                   Type–token distinction 
                   Universal 
                   Unobservable 
                   Value 
                   more ...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related topics
                
                  
                  
                   Axiology 
                   Cosmology 
                   Epistemology 
                   Feminist metaphysics 
                   Interpretations of quantum mechanics 
                   Mereology 
                   Meta- 
                   Ontology 
                   Philosophy of mind 
                   Philosophy of psychology 
                   Philosophy of self 
                   Philosophy of space and time 
                   Teleology
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Category 
                   &nbsp;Philosophy portal
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Epistemology
                 
               
               
                Epistemologists
                
                  
                  
                   Thomas Aquinas 
                   Augustine of Hippo 
                   William Alston 
                   Robert Audi 
                   A. J. Ayer 
                   George Berkeley 
                   Laurence BonJour 
                   Gilles Deleuze 
                   Keith DeRose 
                   René Descartes 
                   John Dewey 
                   Fred Dretske 
                   Edmund Gettier 
                   Alvin Goldman 
                   Nelson Goodman 
                   Paul Grice 
                   Anil Gupta 
                   Susan Haack 
                   David Hume 
                   Immanuel Kant 
                   Søren Kierkegaard 
                   Peter Klein 
                   Saul Kripke 
                   Hilary Kornblith 
                   David Lewis 
                   John Locke 
                   G. E. Moore 
                   John McDowell 
                   Robert Nozick 
                   Alvin Plantinga 
                   Plato 
                   Duncan Pritchard 
                   James Pryor 
                   Hilary Putnam 
                   W. V. O. Quine 
                   Thomas Reid 
                   Bertrand Russell 
                   Gilbert Ryle 
                   Wilfrid Sellars 
                   Susanna Siegel 
                   Ernest Sosa 
                   P. F. Strawson 
                   Baruch Spinoza 
                   Timothy Williamson 
                   Ludwig Wittgenstein 
                   Nicholas Wolterstorff 
                   Vienna Circle 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Coherentism 
                   Constructivism 
                   Contextualism 
                   Empiricism 
                   Evolutionary epistemology 
                   Fallibilism 
                   Feminist epistemology 
                   Fideism 
                   Foundationalism 
                   Holism 
                   Infinitism 
                   Innatism 
                   Naïve realism 
                   Naturalized epistemology 
                   Phenomenalism 
                   Positivism 
                   Rationalism 
                   Reductionism 
                   Reliabilism 
                   Representational realism 
                   Skepticism 
                   Transcendental idealism
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   A priori knowledge 
                   A posteriori knowledge 
                   Analysis 
                   Analytic–synthetic distinction 
                   Belief 
                   Common sense 
                   Descriptive knowledge 
                   Exploratory thought 
                   Epistemic injustice 
                   Gettier problem 
                   Induction 
                   Internalism and externalism 
                   Justification 
                   Knowledge 
                   Objectivity 
                   Privileged access 
                   Problem of induction 
                   Problem of other minds 
                   Perception 
                   Procedural knowledge 
                   Proposition 
                   Regress argument 
                   Simplicity 
                   Speculative reason 
                   Truth 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related articles
                
                  
                  
                   Outline of epistemology 
                   Faith and rationality 
                   Formal epistemology 
                   Metaepistemology 
                   Philosophy of perception 
                   Philosophy of science 
                   Social epistemology
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   Task Force 
                   Stubs 
                   Discussion
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Logic
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Outline 
                   History
                   
                 
               
               
                Fields
                
                  
                  
                   Computer science 
                   Formal semantics (natural language) 
                   Inference 
                   Philosophy of logic 
                   Proof 
                   Semantics of logic 
                   Syntax
                   
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Logics
                    
                      
                      
                       Classical 
                       Informal 
                        
                         Critical thinking 
                         Reason
                         
                       Mathematical 
                       Non-classical 
                       Philosophical
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Theories
                    
                      
                      
                       Argumentation 
                       Metalogic 
                       Metamathematics 
                       Set
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                  
                 
               
               
                Foundations
                
                  
                  
                   Abduction 
                   Analytic and synthetic propositions 
                   Contradiction 
                    
                     Paradox 
                     Antinomy
                     
                   Deduction 
                   Deductive closure 
                   Definition 
                   Description 
                   Entailment 
                    
                     Linguistic
                     
                   Form 
                   Induction 
                   Logical truth 
                   Name 
                   Necessity and sufficiency 
                   Premise 
                   Probability 
                   Reference 
                   Statement 
                   Substitution 
                   Truth 
                   Validity
                   
                 
               
               
                Lists
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    topics
                    
                      
                      
                       Mathematical logic 
                       Boolean algebra 
                       Set theory
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    other
                    
                      
                      
                       Logicians 
                       Rules of inference 
                       Paradoxes 
                       Fallacies 
                       Logic symbols
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   &nbsp;Philosophy portal 
                   Category 
                   WikiProject&nbsp;(talk) 
                   changes
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Calculus
                 
               
               
                Precalculus
                
                  
                  
                   Binomial theorem 
                   Concave function 
                   Continuous function 
                   Factorial 
                   Finite difference 
                   Free variables and bound variables 
                   Graph of a function 
                   Linear function 
                   Radian 
                   Rolle's theorem 
                   Secant 
                   Slope 
                   Tangent
                   
                 
               
               
                Limits
                
                  
                  
                   Indeterminate form 
                   Limit of a function 
                    
                     One-sided limit
                     
                   Limit of a sequence 
                   Order of approximation 
                   (ε, δ)-definition of limit
                   
                 
               
               
                Differential calculus
                
                  
                  
                   Derivative 
                   Differential 
                   Differential equation 
                   Differential operator 
                   Mean value theorem 
                   Notation 
                    
                     Leibniz's notation 
                     Newton's notation
                     
                   Rules of differentiation 
                    
                     linearity 
                     Power 
                     Sum 
                     Chain 
                     L'Hôpital's 
                     Product 
                      
                       General Leibniz's rule
                       
                     Quotient
                     
                   Other techniques 
                    
                     Implicit differentiation 
                     Inverse functions and differentiation 
                     Logarithmic derivative 
                     Related rates
                     
                   Stationary points 
                    
                     First derivative test 
                     Second derivative test 
                     Extreme value theorem 
                     Maxima and minima
                     
                   Further applications 
                    
                     Newton's method 
                     Taylor's theorem
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Integral calculus
                
                  
                  
                   Antiderivative 
                   Arc length 
                   Basic properties 
                   Constant of integration 
                   Fundamental theorem of calculus 
                    
                     Differentiating under the integral sign
                     
                   Integration by parts 
                   Integration by substitution 
                    
                     trigonometric 
                     Euler 
                     Weierstrass
                     
                   Partial fractions in integration 
                    
                     Quadratic integral
                     
                   Trapezoidal rule 
                   Volumes 
                    
                     Washer method 
                     Shell method
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Vector calculus
                
                  
                  
                   Derivatives 
                    
                     Curl 
                     Directional derivative 
                     Divergence 
                     Gradient 
                     Laplacian
                     
                   Basic theorems 
                    
                     Line integrals 
                     Green's 
                     Stokes' 
                     Gauss'
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Multivariable calculus
                
                  
                  
                   Divergence theorem 
                   Geometric 
                   Hessian matrix 
                   Jacobian matrix and determinant 
                   Lagrange multiplier 
                   Line integral 
                   Matrix 
                   Multiple integral 
                   Partial derivative 
                   Surface integral 
                   Volume integral 
                   Advanced topics 
                    
                     Differential forms 
                     Exterior derivative 
                     Generalized Stokes' theorem 
                     Tensor calculus
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Sequences and series
                
                  
                  
                   Arithmetico–geometric sequence 
                   Types of series 
                    
                     Alternating 
                     Binomial 
                     Fourier 
                     Geometric 
                     Harmonic 
                     Infinite 
                     Power 
                      
                       Maclaurin 
                       Taylor
                       
                     Telescoping
                     
                   Tests of convergence 
                    
                     Abel's 
                     Alternating series 
                     Cauchy condensation 
                     Direct comparison 
                     Dirichlet's 
                     Integral 
                     Limit comparison 
                     Ratio 
                     Root 
                     Term
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Special functionsand numbers
                
                  
                  
                   Bernoulli numbers 
                   e (mathematical constant) 
                   Exponential function 
                   Natural logarithm 
                   Stirling's approximation
                   
                 
               
               
                History of calculus
                
                  
                  
                   Adequality 
                   Brook Taylor 
                   Colin Maclaurin 
                   Generality of algebra 
                   Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
                   Infinitesimal 
                   Infinitesimal calculus 
                   Isaac Newton 
                   Fluxion 
                   Law of Continuity 
                   Leonhard Euler 
                   Method of Fluxions 
                   The Method of Mechanical Theorems
                   
                 
               
               
                Lists
                
                  
                  
                   Differentiation rules 
                   List of integrals of exponential functions 
                   List of integrals of hyperbolic functions 
                   List of integrals of inverse hyperbolic functions 
                   List of integrals of inverse trigonometric functions 
                   List of integrals of irrational functions 
                   List of integrals of logarithmic functions 
                   List of integrals of rational functions 
                   List of integrals of trigonometric functions 
                    
                     Secant 
                     Secant cubed
                     
                   List of limits 
                   Lists of integrals
                   
                 
               
               
                Miscellaneous topics
                
                  
                  
                   Differential geometry 
                    
                     curvature 
                     of curves 
                     of surfaces
                     
                   Euler–Maclaurin formula 
                   Gabriel's Horn 
                   Integration Bee 
                   Proof that 22/7 exceeds π 
                   Regiomontanus' angle maximization problem 
                   Steinmetz solid
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Timelines of computing
                 
               
               
                Computing
                
                  
                  
                   Before 1950 
                   1950–1979 
                   1980s 
                   1990s 
                   2000s 
                   2010s 
                   2020s 
                   Scientific 
                   Women in computing
                   
                 
               
               
                Computer science
                
                  
                  
                   Algorithms 
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Binary prefixes 
                   Cryptography 
                   Machine learning 
                   Quantum computing
                   
                 
               
               
                Software
                
                  
                  
                   Free and open-source software 
                   Hypertext technology 
                   Operating systems 
                    
                     DOS family 
                     Windows 
                     Linux
                     
                   Programming languages 
                   Virtualization development 
                   Malware
                   
                 
               
               
                Internet
                
                  
                  
                   Internet conflicts 
                   Web browsers 
                   Web search engines
                   
                 
               
               
                Notable people
                
                  
                  
                   Kathleen Antonelli 
                   John Vincent Atanasoff 
                   Charles Babbage 
                   John Backus 
                   Jean Bartik 
                   George Boole 
                   Vint Cerf 
                   John Cocke 
                   Stephen Cook 
                   Edsger W. Dijkstra 
                   J. Presper Eckert 
                   Adele Goldstine 
                   Lois Haibt 
                   Betty Holberton 
                   Margaret Hamilton 
                   Grace Hopper 
                   David A. Huffman 
                   Bob Kahn 
                   Brian Kernighan 
                   Andrew Koenig 
                   Semyon Korsakov 
                   Nancy Leveson 
                   Ada Lovelace 
                   Donald Knuth 
                   Joseph Kruskal 
                   Douglas McIlroy 
                   Marlyn Meltzer 
                   John von Neumann 
                   Klára Dán von Neumann 
                   Dennis Ritchie 
                   Guido van Rossum 
                   Frances Spence 
                   Bjarne Stroustrup 
                   Ruth Teitelbaum 
                   Ken Thompson 
                   Linus Torvalds 
                   Alan Turing 
                   Paul Vixie 
                   Larry Wall 
                   Stephen Wolfram 
                   Niklaus Wirth 
                   Steve Wozniak 
                   Konrad Zuse
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of religion
                 
               
               
                Concepts in religion
                
                  
                  
                   Afterlife 
                   Euthyphro dilemma 
                   Faith 
                    
                     or religious belief
                     
                   Intelligent design 
                   Miracle 
                   Problem of evil 
                   Soul 
                   Spirit 
                   Theodicy 
                   Theological veto
                   
                 
               
               
                Conceptions of God
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                      
                      
                       Aristotelian view 
                       Brahman 
                       Demiurge 
                       Divine simplicity 
                       Egoism 
                       Holy Spirit 
                       Misotheism 
                       Pandeism 
                       Personal god 
                       Process theology 
                       Supreme Being 
                       Unmoved mover
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    God in
                    
                      
                      
                       Abrahamic religions 
                       Buddhism 
                       Christianity 
                       Hinduism 
                       Islam 
                       Jainism 
                       Judaism 
                       Mormonism 
                       Sikhism 
                       Baháʼí Faith 
                       Wicca
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                Existence of God
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    For
                    
                      
                      
                       Beauty 
                       Christological 
                       Consciousness 
                       Cosmological 
                        
                         Kalam 
                         Contingency
                         
                       Degree 
                       Desire 
                       Experience 
                       Fine-tuning of the universe 
                       Love 
                       Miracles 
                       Morality 
                       Necessary existent 
                       Ontological 
                       Pascal's wager 
                       Proper basis 
                       Reason 
                       Teleological 
                        
                         Natural law 
                         Watchmaker analogy
                         
                       Transcendental
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Against
                    
                      
                      
                       747 gambit 
                       Atheist's Wager 
                       Evil 
                       Free will 
                       Hell 
                       Inconsistent revelations 
                       Nonbelief 
                       Noncognitivism 
                       Occam's razor 
                       Omnipotence 
                       Poor design 
                       Russell's teapot
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                Theology
                
                  
                  
                   Acosmism 
                   Agnosticism 
                   Animism 
                   Antireligion 
                   Atheism 
                   Creationism 
                   Dharmism 
                   Deism 
                   Demonology 
                   Divine command theory 
                   Dualism 
                   Esotericism 
                   Exclusivism 
                   Existentialism 
                    
                     Christian 
                     Agnostic 
                     Atheistic
                     
                   Feminist theology 
                    
                     Thealogy 
                     Womanist theology
                     
                   Fideism 
                   Fundamentalism 
                   Gnosticism 
                   Henotheism 
                   Humanism 
                    
                     Religious 
                     Secular 
                     Christian
                     
                   Inclusivism 
                   Theories about religions 
                   Monism 
                   Monotheism 
                   Mysticism 
                   Naturalism 
                    
                     Metaphysical 
                     Religious 
                     Humanistic
                     
                   New Age 
                   Nondualism 
                   Nontheism 
                   Pandeism 
                   Panentheism 
                   Pantheism 
                   Perennialism 
                   Polytheism 
                   Possibilianism 
                   Process theology 
                   Religious skepticism 
                   Spiritualism 
                   Shamanism 
                   Taoic 
                   Theism 
                   Transcendentalism 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Religious language
                
                  
                  
                   Eschatological verification 
                   Language game 
                   Logical positivism 
                   Apophatic theology 
                   Verificationism
                   
                 
               
               
                Problem of evil
                
                  
                  
                   Augustinian theodicy 
                   Best of all possible worlds 
                   Euthyphro dilemma 
                   Inconsistent triad 
                   Irenaean theodicy 
                   Natural evil 
                   Theodicy
                   
                 
               
               
                
                 
                  Philosophersof religion
                 (by date active)
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Ancient andmedieval
                    
                      
                      
                       Anselm of Canterbury 
                       Augustine of Hippo 
                       Avicenna 
                       Averroes 
                       Boethius 
                       Erasmus 
                       Gaunilo of Marmoutiers 
                       Pico della Mirandola 
                       Heraclitus 
                       King James VI and I 
                       Marcion of Sinope 
                       Thomas Aquinas 
                       Maimonides
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Early modern
                    
                      
                      
                       Augustin Calmet 
                       René Descartes 
                       Blaise Pascal 
                       Baruch Spinoza 
                       Nicolas Malebranche 
                       Gottfried W Leibniz 
                       William Wollaston 
                       Thomas Chubb 
                       David Hume 
                       Baron d'Holbach 
                       Immanuel Kant 
                       Johann G Herder
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    18001850
                    
                      
                      
                       Friedrich Schleiermacher 
                       Karl C F Krause 
                       Georg W F Hegel
                       
                      
                       William Whewell 
                       Ludwig Feuerbach 
                       Søren Kierkegaard 
                       Karl Marx 
                       Albrecht Ritschl 
                       Afrikan Spir
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    18801900
                    
                      
                      
                       Ernst Haeckel 
                       W K Clifford 
                       Friedrich Nietzsche 
                       Harald Høffding 
                       William James
                       
                      
                       Vladimir Solovyov 
                       Ernst Troeltsch 
                       Rudolf Otto 
                       Lev Shestov 
                       Sergei Bulgakov 
                       Pavel Florensky 
                       Ernst Cassirer 
                       Joseph Maréchal
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    1920postwar
                    
                      
                      
                       George Santayana 
                       Bertrand Russell 
                       Martin Buber 
                       René Guénon 
                       Paul Tillich 
                       Karl Barth 
                       Emil Brunner 
                       Rudolf Bultmann 
                       Gabriel Marcel 
                       Reinhold Niebuhr
                       
                      
                       Charles Hartshorne 
                       Mircea Eliade 
                       Frithjof Schuon 
                       J L Mackie 
                       Walter Kaufmann 
                       Martin Lings 
                       Peter Geach 
                       George I Mavrodes 
                       William Alston 
                       Antony Flew
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    197019902010
                    
                      
                      
                       William L Rowe 
                       Dewi Z Phillips 
                       Alvin Plantinga 
                       Anthony Kenny 
                       Nicholas Wolterstorff 
                       Richard Swinburne 
                       Robert Merrihew Adams 
                       Ravi Zacharias 
                       Peter van Inwagen 
                       Daniel Dennett 
                       Loyal Rue 
                       Jean-Luc Marion 
                       William Lane Craig 
                       Ali Akbar Rashad
                       
                      
                       Alexander Pruss
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                Related topics
                
                  
                  
                   Criticism of religion 
                   Desacralization of knowledge 
                   Ethics in religion 
                   Exegesis 
                   History of religion 
                   Religion 
                   Religious language 
                   Religious philosophy 
                   Relationship between religion and science 
                   Faith and rationality 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Portal 
                    Category
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of language
                 
               
               
                
                 
                  Index of language articles
                 
               
               
                Philosophers
                
                  
                  
                   Plato (Cratylus) 
                   Gorgias 
                   Confucius 
                   Xunzi 
                   Aristotle 
                   Stoics 
                   Pyrrhonists 
                   Scholasticism 
                   Ibn Rushd 
                   Ibn Khaldun 
                   Thomas Hobbes 
                   Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
                   Johann Herder 
                   Ludwig Noiré 
                   Wilhelm von Humboldt 
                   Fritz Mauthner 
                   Paul Ricœur 
                   Ferdinand de Saussure 
                   Gottlob Frege 
                   Franz Boas 
                   Paul Tillich 
                   Edward Sapir 
                   Leonard Bloomfield 
                   Zhuangzi 
                   Henri Bergson 
                   Lev Vygotsky 
                   Ludwig Wittgenstein 
                    
                     Philosophical Investigations 
                     Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
                     
                   Bertrand Russell 
                   Rudolf Carnap 
                   Jacques Derrida 
                    
                     Of Grammatology 
                     Limited Inc
                     
                   Benjamin Lee Whorf 
                   Gustav Bergmann 
                   J. L. Austin 
                   Noam Chomsky 
                   Hans-Georg Gadamer 
                   Saul Kripke 
                   A. J. Ayer 
                   G. E. M. Anscombe 
                   Jaakko Hintikka 
                   Michael Dummett 
                   Donald Davidson 
                   Roger Gibson 
                   Paul Grice 
                   Gilbert Ryle 
                   P. F. Strawson 
                   Willard Van Orman Quine 
                   Hilary Putnam 
                   David Lewis 
                   Robert Stalnaker 
                   John Searle 
                   Joxe Azurmendi 
                   Scott Soames 
                   Stephen Yablo 
                   John Hawthorne 
                   Stephen Neale 
                   Paul Watzlawick 
                   Richard Montague 
                   Barbara Partee
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Causal theory of reference 
                   Contrast theory of meaning 
                   Contrastivism 
                   Conventionalism 
                   Cratylism 
                   Deconstruction 
                   Descriptivism 
                   Direct reference theory 
                   Dramatism 
                   Dynamic semantics 
                   Expressivism 
                   Inquisitive semantics 
                   Linguistic determinism 
                   Mediated reference theory 
                   Nominalism 
                   Non-cognitivism 
                   Phallogocentrism 
                   Relevance theory 
                   Semantic externalism 
                   Semantic holism 
                   Situation semantics 
                   Structuralism 
                   Supposition theory 
                   Symbiosism 
                   Theological noncognitivism 
                   Theory of descriptions (Definite description) 
                   Unilalianism 
                   Verification theory
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Ambiguity 
                   Cant 
                   Linguistic relativity 
                   Language 
                   Truth-bearer 
                   Proposition 
                   Use–mention distinction 
                   Concept 
                   Categories 
                   Set 
                   Class 
                   Family resemblance 
                   Intension 
                   Logical form 
                   Metalanguage 
                   Mental representation 
                   Modality (natural language) 
                   Presupposition 
                   Principle of compositionality 
                   Property 
                   Sign 
                   Sense and reference 
                   Speech act 
                   Symbol 
                   Sentence 
                   Statement 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related articles
                
                  
                  
                   Analytic philosophy 
                   Philosophy of information 
                   Philosophical logic 
                   Linguistics 
                   Pragmatics 
                   Rhetoric 
                   Semantics 
                   Formal semantics 
                   Semiotics
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   Task Force 
                   Discussion
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of mind
                 
               
               
                Philosophers
                
                  
                  
                   Anscombe 
                   Austin 
                   Aquinas 
                   Bain 
                   Bergson 
                   Bhattacharya 
                   Block 
                   Brentano 
                   Broad 
                   Burge 
                   Chalmers 
                   Churchland 
                   Dennett 
                   Dharmakirti 
                   Davidson 
                   Descartes 
                   Goldman 
                   Heidegger 
                   Husserl 
                   Feyerabend 
                   Fodor 
                   James 
                   Kierkegaard 
                   Leibniz 
                   Lewis 
                   McDowell 
                   Merleau-Ponty 
                   Minsky 
                   Moore 
                   Nagel 
                   Parfit 
                   Putnam 
                   Popper 
                   Rorty 
                   Ryle 
                   Searle 
                   Spinoza 
                   Turing 
                   Vasubandhu 
                   Wittgenstein 
                   Zhuangzi 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Behaviorism 
                   Biological naturalism 
                   Dualism 
                   Eliminative materialism 
                   Emergent materialism 
                   Epiphenomenalism 
                   Functionalism 
                   Idealism 
                   Interactionism 
                   Materialism 
                   Monism 
                   Naïve realism 
                    
                     Neurophenomenology
                     
                   Neutral monism 
                   Occasionalism 
                   Parallelism 
                   Phenomenalism 
                   Phenomenology 
                   Physicalism 
                    
                     identity theory
                     
                   Property dualism 
                   Representational 
                   Solipsism 
                   Substance dualism
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   Abstract object 
                   Artificial intelligence 
                   Chinese room 
                   Cognition 
                   Cognitive closure 
                   Concept 
                   Concept and object 
                   Consciousness 
                   Hard problem of consciousness 
                   Hypostatic abstraction 
                   Idea 
                   Identity 
                   Ingenuity 
                   Intelligence 
                   Intentionality 
                   Introspection 
                   Intuition 
                   Language of thought 
                   Materialism 
                   Mental event 
                   Mental image 
                   Mental process 
                   Mental property 
                   Mental representation 
                   Mind 
                   Mind–body problem 
                   New mysterianism 
                   Pain 
                   Problem of other minds 
                   Propositional attitude 
                   Qualia 
                   Tabula rasa 
                   Understanding 
                   Zombie 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related
                
                  
                  
                   Metaphysics 
                   Philosophy of artificial intelligence&nbsp;/ information&nbsp;/ perception&nbsp;/ self
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   Philosophers category 
                   Project 
                   Task Force
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Social and political philosophy
                 
               
               
                Ancient
                
                  
                  
                   Aristotle 
                   Augustine 
                   Chanakya 
                   Cicero 
                   Confucius 
                   Han Fei 
                   Lactantius 
                   Laozi 
                   Mencius 
                   Mozi 
                   Origen 
                   Philo 
                   Plato 
                   Plutarch 
                   Polybius 
                   Shang 
                   Sun Tzu 
                   Tertullian 
                   Thucydides 
                   Valluvar 
                   Xenophon 
                   Xunzi
                   
                 
               
               
                Medieval
                
                  
                  
                   Alpharabius 
                   Aquinas 
                   Avempace 
                   Averroes 
                   Baldus 
                   Bartolus 
                   Bruni 
                   Dante 
                   Gelasius 
                   al-Ghazali 
                   Giles 
                   Gratian 
                   Gregory 
                   Ibn Khaldun 
                   John of Salisbury 
                   Latini 
                   Maimonides 
                   Marsilius 
                   Muhammad 
                   Nizam al-Mulk 
                   Ockham 
                   Photios 
                   Ibn Tufail 
                   Wang
                   
                 
               
               
                Early modern
                
                  
                  
                   Beza 
                   Boétie 
                   Bodin 
                   Bossuet 
                   Buchanan 
                   Calvin 
                   Duplessis-Mornay 
                   Erasmus 
                   Filmer 
                   Grotius 
                   Guicciardini 
                   Harrington 
                   Hayashi 
                   Hobbes 
                   Hotman 
                   James 
                   Leibniz 
                   Locke 
                   Luther 
                   Machiavelli 
                   Malebranche 
                   Milton 
                   Montaigne 
                   More 
                   Müntzer 
                   Pufendorf 
                   Sidney 
                   Spinoza 
                   Suárez
                   
                 
               
               
                18th–19th-century
                
                  
                  
                   Bakunin 
                   Bastiat 
                   Bentham 
                   Bolingbroke 
                   Bonald 
                   Burke 
                   Comte 
                   Condorcet 
                   Constant 
                   Cortés 
                   Emerson 
                   Engels 
                   Fichte 
                   Fourier 
                   Franklin 
                   Godwin 
                   Hamann 
                   Hegel 
                   Herder 
                   Hume 
                   Jefferson 
                   Kant 
                    
                     political philosophy
                     
                   Kierkegaard 
                   Le Bon 
                   Le Play 
                   Madison 
                   Maistre 
                   Marx 
                   Mazzini 
                   Mill 
                   Montesquieu 
                   Nietzsche 
                   Novalis 
                   Paine 
                   Renan 
                   Rousseau 
                   Royce 
                   Sade 
                   Schiller 
                   Smith 
                   Spencer 
                   Spooner 
                   de Staël 
                   Stirner 
                   Taine 
                   Thoreau 
                   Tocqueville 
                   Vico 
                   Vivekananda 
                   Voltaire
                   
                 
               
               
                20th–21st-century
                
                  
                  
                   Adorno 
                   Ambedkar 
                   Arendt 
                   Aurobindo 
                   Aron 
                   Badiou 
                   Baudrillard 
                   Bauman 
                   Benoist 
                   Berlin 
                   Bernstein 
                   Butler 
                   Camus 
                   Chomsky 
                   de Beauvoir 
                   Debord 
                   Deleuze 
                   Dewey 
                   Dmowski 
                   Du Bois 
                   Durkheim 
                   Dworkin 
                   Evola 
                   Foucault 
                   Fromm 
                   Gandhi 
                   Gehlen 
                   Gentile 
                   Gramsci 
                   Guénon 
                   Habermas 
                   Hayek 
                   Heidegger 
                   Irigaray 
                   Kautsky 
                   Kirk 
                   Kropotkin 
                   Laclau 
                   Lenin 
                   Luxemburg 
                   MacIntyre 
                   Mansfield 
                   Mao 
                   Marcuse 
                   Maritain 
                   Maurras 
                   Michels 
                   Mises 
                   Mouffe 
                   Negri 
                   Niebuhr 
                   Nozick 
                   Nursî 
                   Oakeshott 
                   Ortega 
                   Pareto 
                   Polanyi 
                   Popper 
                   Qutb 
                   Radhakrishnan 
                   Rand 
                   Rawls 
                   Röpke 
                   Rothbard 
                   Russell 
                   Santayana 
                   Sarkar 
                   Sartre 
                   Schmitt 
                   Scruton 
                   Searle 
                   Shariati 
                   Simmel 
                   Skinner 
                   Sombart 
                   Sorel 
                   Spann 
                   Strauss 
                   Sun 
                   Taylor 
                   Tucker 
                   Voegelin 
                   Walzer 
                   Weber 
                   Weil 
                   Žižek
                   
                 
               
               
                Social theories
                
                  
                  
                   Anarchism 
                   Authoritarianism 
                   Collectivism 
                   Communism 
                   Communitarianism 
                   Conflict theories 
                   Confucianism 
                   Consensus theory 
                   Conservatism 
                   Contractualism 
                   Cosmopolitanism 
                   Culturalism 
                   Elitism 
                   Fascism 
                   Feminist political theory 
                   Gandhism 
                   Hindu nationalism (Hindutva) 
                   Individualism 
                   Islam 
                    
                     Islamism
                     
                   Legalism 
                   Liberalism 
                   Libertarianism 
                   Mohism 
                   National liberalism 
                   Republicanism 
                   Social constructionism 
                   Social constructivism 
                   Social Darwinism 
                   Social determinism 
                   Socialism 
                   Utilitarianism
                   
                 
               
               
                Related articles
                
                  
                  
                   Critique of political economy 
                   Critique of work 
                   Jurisprudence 
                   Philosophy and economics 
                   Philosophy of education 
                   Philosophy of history 
                   Philosophy of love 
                   Philosophy of social science 
                   Political ethics 
                   Social epistemology 
                   Index
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category
                   
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         Biography
        
        
         Mathematics
        
        
         Philosophy
        
        
         Science
        
        
         Art
        
        
         Literature
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Chile 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             Italy 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Korea 
              
               2
               
             Croatia 
             Netherlands 
              
               2
               
             Poland 
             Sweden 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Art research institutes
          
            
            
             Artist Names (Getty)
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan) 
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             MusicBrainz artist 
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1 
               2
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gottfried_Wilhelm_Leibniz&amp;oldid=1070829202"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Gottfried Leibniz
       1646 births
       1716 deaths
       17th-century German mathematicians
       17th-century German philosophers
       17th-century German scientists
       17th-century German writers
       17th-century German male writers
       17th-century Latin-language writers
       18th-century German mathematicians
       18th-century German philosophers
       18th-century German scientists
       18th-century German writers
       18th-century German male writers
       18th-century Latin-language writers
       Age of Enlightenment
       Analytic philosophy
       Constructed language creators
       Determinists
       Enlightenment philosophers
       Epistemologists
       Fellows of the Royal Society
       17th-century German inventors
       German librarians
       German logicians
       German Lutherans
       German philologists
       18th-century German physicists
       German political philosophers
       German Protestants
       German writers in French
       Idealists
       Leipzig University alumni
       Mathematical analysts
       Mathematics of infinitesimals
       Linear algebraists
       Members of the Prussian Academy of Sciences
       Metaphysicians
       Moral philosophers
       Ontologists
       Panpsychism
       People associated with Baruch Spinoza
       People educated at the St. Thomas School, Leipzig
       People from the Electorate of Saxony
       People involved in plagiarism controversies
       People of the Age of Enlightenment
       Philosophers of art
       Philosophers of culture
       Philosophers of economics
       Philosophers of education
       Philosophers of ethics and morality
       Philosophers of language
       Philosophers of law
       Philosophers of literature
       Philosophers of logic
       Philosophers of mathematics
       Philosophers of mind
       Philosophers of science
       Philosophers of technology
       Philosophers of time
       Philosophical cosmologists
       Philosophical theists
       Philosophy writers
       Rationalists
       Scholasticism
       University of Altdorf alumni
       Writers about religion and science
       Giftedness
       18th-century German inventors
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles containing French-language text
       CS1 German-language sources (de)
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2018
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
       Articles with Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy links
       CS1 errors: generic name
       CS1: long volume value
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from July 2017
       Biography with signature
       Articles with hCards
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2013
       Articles needing additional references from January 2014
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles needing additional references from September 2021
       Articles with unsourced statements from May 2018
       Articles with unsourced statements from July 2010
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Project Gutenberg links
       Articles with Internet Archive links
       Articles with LibriVox links
       Articles containing Hebrew-language text
       Articles containing Latin-language text
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNC identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with ICCU identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with ULAN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with MusicBrainz identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 32 elements
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       العربية
       Aragonés
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       Corsu
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Dolnoserbski
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Français
       Frysk
       Furlan
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       贛語
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       한국어
       Hausa
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hornjoserbsce
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Кырык мары
       Ladino
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Ligure
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Livvinkarjala
       Lombard
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Oromoo
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Patois
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Piemontèis
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       संस्कृतम्
       Sardu
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vepsän kel’
       Tiếng Việt
       Volapük
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 February 2022, at 13:48&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
