
 
  
   
  Suzanne Briet - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Suzanne Briet 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       French librarian, author and historian (1894-1989)
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Renée-Marie-Hélène-Suzanne Briet
          
        
        
         Born
         1 February 1894&nbsp;(1894-02)
          
           Paris, France
          
        
        
         Died
         1989 (aged&nbsp;94–95)
          
           Boulogne, France
          
        
        
         
          
        
        
         Era
         20th-century philosophy
        
        
         Region
         Western Philosophy
        
        
         School
         Second generation European Documentalist, Continental philosophy, structuralism, post-structuralism
        
        
         
          
           Main interests
          
         technology, information science, semiotics, librarianship, scholarly communication, information overload, social epistemology, science and technology studies
        
        
         
          
           Notable ideas
          
         indice, Philosophy of technology, documentary semiotics, institutionalization
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influences
            
            
           
            
             
              Henri La Fontaine, Paul Otlet, Eugene Wigner
             
            
          
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influenced
            
            
           
            
             
              Michael Buckland, Jesse Shera, Bruno Latour, S. R. Ranganathan
             
            
          
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Renée-Marie-Hélène-Suzanne Briet (/ˈbreɪ/; French pronunciation:&nbsp;​; 1 February 1894 - 1989), known as "Madame Documentation," was a librarian, author, historian, poet, and visionary best known for her treatise Qu'est-ce que la documentation? (What is Documentation?), a foundational text in the modern study of information science. She is also known for her writings on the history of Ardennes and the poet Arthur Rimbaud. 
      Her treatise Qu'est-ce que la documentation? offers a vision of documentation that moves beyond Paul Otlet's emphasis on fixed forms of documents, such as the book, toward "an unlimited horizon of physical forms and aesthetic formats for documents and an unlimited horizon of techniques and technologies (and of 'documentary agencies' employing these) in the service of multitudes of particular cultures." Like many early European Documentalists, Briet embraced modernity and science. However, her work made a difference to modernism and science through the influence of French post-structuralist theorists and her strong orientation toward humanistic scholarship. She subsequently ushered in a second generation of European Documentation and introduced humanistic methods and concerns, especially semiotics and cultural studies, to information science. 
      Although Briet had been highly regarded throughout much of her career—the Grand Cross of the Légion d'honneur was conferred on her in 1950 — she was largely forgotten in her later life, until her death in 1989, when scholars found a renewed interest in her ideas. Today scholars often credit Briet as a visionary, having laid the foundation for contemporary frameworks and methodologies in information science roughly 50 years earlier. "Her modernist perspective," writes Michael Buckland, "combined with semiotics, deserves attention now because it is different from, and offers an alternative to, the scientific, positivist view that has so dominated information science and which is increasingly questioned."  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life 
        2 Career 
        3 Impact on information science 
        4 Select bibliography 
        5 External links 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        
       
      Early life 
      Suzanne Briet was born in Paris, France, on 1 February 1894, coming of age at a time of great social change and economic loss in France after World War I. Although Briet grew up in Paris, she remained attached to her birthplace and ancestral home. Briet was only 20 at the outbreak of the war. Ardennes was the pathway of German armies invading France, and during the hostilities her uncle was deported, his village was invaded, and her grandfather's house was destroyed. Historians have suggested that perhaps because of her experiences during the war, as well as her travels to England as a child, Briet took an early interest in the League of Nations, sitting in on some of the sessions held in Paris, and the founding of other international organizations. Briet's mother expected her to become a teacher. Briet's family sent her to Ecole de Sèvres, an elite women's school for training secondary school teachers, where she earned a degree in history and qualified to teach English and history. After teaching in Algeria from 1917 to 1920, Briet pursued a career in librarianship. She studied with Louis Barrau-Dihigo at the Sorbonne, who was apparently so taken with Briet's talents that "when Briet explained that she could only participate on Saturday, he changed the time of the course to accommodate her." At age 30 in 1924, Briet was one of the first of three women appointed as professional librarians at the Bibliothèque Nationale.  
      Career 
      Briet's career at the Bibliothèque Nationale witnessed major changes in the library profession. Briet played a central role in the "modern library" movement, which eschewed elitist traditions that had dominated many libraries in favor of "modern" ideas of librarianship. In addition to technological innovations, Briet saw the emergence of documentation as a distinct profession with its own techniques, standards and training. Women also entered the professional classes in France in increasing numbers during World War II, growing from only 10% of the library profession in 1927 to 50% by the end of the war. Her main achievements during these years were symbolic of her interest in service and modernization. Between 1934 and 1954, Briet created and supervised the Salle des Catalogues et Bibliographies, making available materials throughout France that had been previously restricted to most patrons. By 1931 she co-founded (with chemist Jean Gérard) the Union Française des Organismes de Documentation, the French analogue of the American Documentation Institution, today known as the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 
      During World War II, Briet witnessed many of her colleagues deported during the German occupation of Paris and others arrested as communists. Despite a climate of fear, censorship, oppression and physical hardship, Briet made sure to carry out the catalog and bibliographic services of the Bibliothèque Nationale. During the war, Briet continued her interest in Documentation, even attending a conference in Salzburg, Germany, which was organized by German Documentalists. At the end of the war, Briet took on a larger role in a growing international documentation movement. In 1950, she prepared an international survey of education for librarians and documentalists commissioned by UNESCO and was awarded the Légion d'honneur. In 1951 Briet helped establish the Institut National de Techniques de la Documentation at the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers. She was the founding Director of Studies and eventually the Vice-President of the International Federation for Documentation. 
      That same year, Briet published her treatise Qu'est-ce que la documentation?, in which she outlines, in 48 pages, her philosophy of documentation, "pushing boundaries of the field beyond texts to include any material form of evidence. ('Is a living animal a document?' she asked.)" Her thirty-year career at the Bibliothèque Nationale often put Briet in close contact with major French thinkers of the day, including scientists, historians, linguists, and philosophers, which had a significant impact on her philosophy. Briet retired from the Bibliothèque Nationale in 1954 at age 60. She wrote her last essays on documentation in 1955. She spent her retirement concentrating on other interests, including the history of Ardennes and the poet Arthur Rimbaud. Her memoirs were published in 1979. She died in Boulogne in 1989.  
      Impact on information science 
      Briet published roughly 100 essays, books, and reports on documentation, library science, and history She took up many of the pressing issues of documentation in her day: internationalization, institutionalization, information or documentary overload, scholarly communication, science and technology studies, world peace, and international development. Briet had been deeply engaged in the documentation movement from the 1920s onward, bringing to it a deep understanding of culture and the humanities. Expanding on the techniques and technological ideas of earlier European Documentalists, such as Paul Otlet and Henri La Fontaine, "Briet understood that technology and culture were deeply connected. She saw society and, therefore, culture, as being re-shaped by technology. The techniques of documentation in aiding and shaping intellectual work were, in her view, both a symptom of, and contributing force within the 'industrialization' of knowledge workers. We can now see, in the impact of computers and telecommunications, how right she was." As one scholar notes, "Not again -- until Actor-network theory at the end of the twentieth century -- would a social network account of technical production, and specifically, documentary production, be articulated." 
      Briet's body of work points to the necessity to understand cultural categories, historical lineages, and the social forces that create and sustain information, urging scholars and information professionals to explore beyond the boundaries of their cultural specialization. Paul Otlet problematized the definition of document when he opened the possibility of any object, independent of the human intention behind its creation, to be a considered a document. Briet solves this problem with her argument that a document must be defined by its intentional use as such. She gives the example of an antelope—running wild in the plains, it is not a document, but captured and placed in a zoo, it becomes an object of study and thus a document. It operates, as Briet says it must, as “evidence in support of a fact”. An object's treatment as evidence is contingent not only on its own properties but on its very framing as a source of information. It must be organized into a meaningful relationship with other evidence in order to have the indexical power of evidence. 
      According to one scholar, "One of Briet's most important insights was that individual documents may be interpreted in different ways by different people wishing to put them to different uses for different purposes. This variability of interpretation is characteristic of documents even at the level of individual words, and the different decisions made by different translators at the word level can have significant consequences." Briet developed the notion of indice (literally "index") as not only pointing to an object but also reflective of the networks in which that object appears as a named thing, leading to a semiotics-inspired definition of "document." Furthermore, Briet argued that techniques and technologies are expressions of a networked culture. One scholar explains the idea this way: "Information and communication technologies may introduce a 'new rhythm' to society and culture, but they themselves are a "symptom" of Western social development." Thus, technique and technology are historically specific and symptomatic of culture. Briet argues that documentation must respond by incorporating these symptoms and specificities of Western culture but also must incorporate "Western modernity's opposite trend toward global expansion." Briet also saw knowledge as embedded and emergent in cultural and social production and saw modernity as the growth of networks of knowledge. Indeed, in an increasingly globalized world, Briet argued for documentation to take up the call of material necessity rather than be put into the service of culture or any one culture; that is, "documentation marks the importance of particular, more 'localized' or specialized cultures in terms of their material needs, their specialized vocabularies, and the techniques and technologies needed to provide documentary services to these groups."  
      Select bibliography 
      
       Briet, Suzanne.(1960). Le maréchal de Schulemberg, Jean III, comte de Montdejeux, 1598-1671. Mezières: Éditions de la Société d'études ardennaises. 
       Briet, Suzanne.(1967). Madame Rimbaud, essai de biographie, suivi de la correspondance de Vitalie Rimbaud-Cuif dont treize lettres inédites. Paris: Lettres modernes, Minard. ISBN&nbsp;978-0320050848 
       Briet, Suzanne.(1956). Rimbaud notre prochain. Paris: Nouvelles Éditions latines. 
       Briet, Suzanne.(1951). Qu'est-ce que la documentation? Paris: Éditions documentaires, industrielles et techniques.
       
      External links 
      
       Suzanne Briet, 1894-1989: "Madame Documentation" 
       Suzanne Briet, What is Documentation? (Qu'est-ce que la documentation?) 
       The Lady and the Antelope: Suzanne Briet's Contribution to the French Documentation Movement 
       M. Buckland. Suzanne Renée Briet 1894-1989: Checklist of Writings
       
      See also 
      
       Document 
       Documentation science
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c d e f g h Maack, Mary Niles. "The Lady and the Antelope: Suzanne Briet's Contribution to the French Documentation Movement." 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2008-07-04. Retrieved 2009-11-11.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link). Retrieved 10 November 2009.  
         ^ Fayet-Scribe, Sylvie. Pp 22-39 In Fondements épistémologiques et théoriques de la science de l’information-documentation. Actes du 11e colloque ISKO France 2017,  Widad Mustafa El Hadi. London: ISTE Editions, 2018.  
         ^ Buckland, Michael. The Centenary of "Madame Documentation": Suzanne Briet, 1894-1989. https://escholarship.org/content/qt6wf9j7sh/qt6wf9j7sh.pdf?t=osf02a. Retrieved 25 June 2020.  
         ^ Buckland, Michael. "Reflections on Suzanne Briet." Pp 10-21 In Fondements épistémologiques et théoriques de la science de l’information-documentation. Actes du 11e colloque ISKO France 2017,  Widad Mustafa El Hadi. London: ISTE Editions, 2018. http://escholarship.org/uc/item/1912p0tn  
         ^ "A Brief Biography of Suzanne Renée Briet." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R. E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 1.  
         ^ Day, Ronald. (2006). "Preface." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. v.  
         ^ Day, Ronald. (2006). "'A Necessity of Our Time': Documentation as 'Cultural Technique in What Is Documentation?." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 49.  
         ^ Buckland, Michael. (2006). "A Brief Biography of Suzanne Renée Briet." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R. E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 2.  
         ^ a b Buckland, Michael. (2006). "A Brief Biography of Suzanne Renée Briet." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 1.  
         ^ a b Buckland, Michael. (2006). "A Brief Biography of Suzanne Renée Briet." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 2  
         ^ Day, Ronald. (2006). "Preface." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 49  
         ^ a b Buckland, Michael. "Suzanne Renée Briet 1894-1989: Checklist of Writings" https://escholarship.org/uc/item/8zk5s3z4 Retrieved 25 June 2020  
         ^ Buckland, Michael. (2006). "A Brief Biography of Suzanne Renée Briet." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 3.  
         ^ Day, Ronald. (2006). "'A Necessity of Our Time': Documentation as 'Cultural Technique in What Is Documentation?." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. vii.  
         ^ "What is a 'document'?" Journal of the American Society for Information Science 48, no. 9 (Sept 1997): 804-809.  
         ^ Furner, Jonathan. (2008). "Review: What Is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. By Suzanne Briet. Translated and edited by Ronald E. Day and Laurent Martinet with Hermina G. B. Anghelescu." Libraries &amp; the Cultural Record 43.1, p. 102  
         ^ a b Day, Ronald. (2006). "'A Necessity of Our Time': Documentation as 'Cultural Technique in What Is Documentation?." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 55.  
         ^ Day, Ronald. (2006). "'A Necessity of Our Time': Documentation as 'Cultural Technique in What Is Documentation?." In What is Documentation?: English Translation of the Classic French Text. R. E. Day, L. Martinet &amp; H. G. B. Anghelescu, Trans.; ed., R.E. Day and L. Martinet. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow, p. 62.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Suzanne_Briet&amp;oldid=1067011645"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       French librarians
       Women librarians
       1894 births
       1989 deaths
       Information science
       Social epistemology
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Čeština
       Español
       Français
       Italiano
       Português
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 07:17&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
