
 
  
   
  Melvil Dewey - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Melvil Dewey 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Melville Dewey)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Inventor of the Dewey Decimal system
       
      
      
      
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Melvil Dewey
          
        
        
         
        
        
         
          
        
        
         President of the American Library Association
        
        
         In officeMay 1892&nbsp;– 1893
        
        
         Preceded by
         William Isaac Fletcher
        
        
         Succeeded by
         Josephus Nelson Larned
        
        
         In office1890&nbsp;– July 1891
        
        
         Preceded by
         Frederick Morgan Crunden
        
        
         Succeeded by
         Samuel Swett Green
        
        
          
        
        
         Personal details
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Melville Louis Kossuth Dewey
          December 10, 1851&nbsp;(1851-12-10)Adams Center, New York, United States
        
        
         Died
         December 26, 1931(1931-12-26) (aged&nbsp;80)Lake Placid, Florida, United States
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Spouse(s)
         
          
           
            
             
              
               Annie R. Godfrey
               
              
               ​
              (m.&nbsp;1878)
              ​
             
            
             
              
               Emily McKay Beal
               
              
               ​
              (m.&nbsp;1924)
              ​
             
           
          
        
        
         Children
         Godfrey Dewey
        
        
         Education
         Middletown High School
        
        
         Alma mater
         Amherst College
        
        
         Occupation
         
          
           
            Librarian
            resort developer
            reformer
           
          
        
        
         Known for
         Dewey Decimal Classification
        
        
         Signature
         
        
        
         
          
        
       
       
      Melville Louis Kossuth "Melvil" Dewey (December 10, 1851 – December 26, 1931) was an influential American librarian and educator, inventor of the Dewey Decimal system of library classification, a founder of the Lake Placid Club, and a chief librarian at Columbia University. He was also a founding member of the American Library Association but resigned in 1905, due to allegations of sexual harassment, racism, and antisemitism.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Education and personal life 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Dewey Decimal Classification 
          2.2 American Library Association 
          2.3 School of Library Economy 
          2.4 Traveling libraries 
          2.5 Metric system advocacy 
          2.6 Lake Placid Club and other reforms 
           
        3 Controversies 
          
          3.1 Sexual harassment 
          3.2 Antisemitism and racism 
          3.3 American Library Association medal 
           
        4 Selected publications 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Education and personal life 
      Dewey was born on December 10, 1851, in Adams Center, New York, the fifth and last child of Joel and Eliza Greene Dewey. He attended rural schools and determined early on that his destiny was to reform education of the masses. He briefly attended Alfred University (1870), then Amherst College, where he belonged to Delta Kappa Epsilon, and from which he earned a bachelor's degree in 1874 and a master's in 1877. 
      While still a student, he founded the Library Bureau, which sold high-quality index-cards and filing-cabinets, and established the standard dimensions for catalog cards. 
      As a young adult he advocated spelling reform; he changed his name from the usual "Melville" to "Melvil," without redundant letters, and for a time changed his surname to "Dui." 
      From 1883 to 1888 he was chief librarian at the Columbia University Libraries. During his time as director of the New York State Library (1888–1906) Dewey established a program of traveling libraries. From 1888 to 1900 he served as secretary and executive officer of the University of the State of New York. 
      In 1895, Dewey founded the Lake Placid Club with his wife Annie. He and his son Godfrey had been active in arranging the Winter Olympics which took place at Lake Placid—he chaired the New York State Winter Olympics Committee. In 1926 he went to Florida to establish a new branch of the Lake Placid Club. 
      Dewey married twice, first to Annie R. Godfrey, and then to Emily McKay Beal. He and his first wife had one child, Godfrey. Dewey became a member of the American Library Association's Hall of Fame in 1951. 
      He died of a stroke in Lake Placid, Florida.  
      Work 
      Dewey was a pioneer in American librarianship and an influential figure in the development of libraries in America in the late 19th and early the 20th century. He is best known for the decimal classification system that many public and school libraries use. Among his other innovations was the idea of a state library operating as the controller of the state's school and public library services. In Boston, Massachusetts, he founded the Library Bureau, a private company "for the definite purpose of furnishing libraries with equipment and supplies of unvarying correctness and reliability." Its investigative unit, devoted to studying the best practices of library loss-management, circulation and data retention, recovered 3,000 books in its first year of existence. 
      Dewey's Library Bureau company is also said to have introduced hanging vertical files, first seen at the Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago. In 1905, Dewey established the American Library Institute which was an organization conceived to provide for the investigation, study and discussion of issues within the field of library theory and practice.  
      Dewey Decimal Classification 
      
      
       Main article: Dewey Decimal Classification
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Spine labels of The New Encyclopaedia Britannica, showing Dewey Decimal Classification call numbers (030=Encyclopedias)
        
       
       
      Immediately after receiving his undergraduate degree he was hired to manage Amherst's library and reclassify its collections. Dewey worked out a new scheme that superimposed a system of decimal numbers on a structure of knowledge first outlined by Sir Francis Bacon. For his decision to use a decimal system, he may have been inspired by two library systems that he includes in the acknowledgements in the first publication of his system in 1876. In that preface, and in the following thirteen editions, Dewey cites the card system of Italian publisher Natale Battezzati as "the most fruitful source of ideas". 
      Dewey copyrighted the system in 1876. This system has proved to be enormously influential; though many American libraries have since adopted the classification scheme of the Library of Congress, Dewey's system remains in widespread use.  
      American Library Association 
      In 1876, Dewey moved to Boston, where he founded and became editor of The Library Journal, which became an influential factor in the development of libraries in America, and in the reform of their administration. He was also one of the founders of the American Library Association, of which he was secretary from 1876 to 1891, and president in 1891 and 1893.  
      School of Library Economy 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The interior of the New York State Library, late 19th century
        
       
       
      In 1883, Dewey became librarian of Columbia College, and in the following year founded there the School of Library Economy, the first institution for the instruction of librarians ever organized. The proposal to establish the school was approved by the college's Board of Trustees on May 5, 1884. After a period of preparation, the school was officially opened on January 5, 1887, with an enrollment of 20 students—three men and 17 women. Women were admitted to the program at Dewey's insistence and against the wishes of the college's Regents. Although the school had a promising start, Dewey's conflicts with the university officials, in particular over the issue of the presence of women, led to its future being cast in doubt, and by 1888 it was apparent that Columbia intended to close it. 
      However, at that point, Dewey, upon accepting a position with the New York State Library in Albany, successfully secured the agreement of its Regents to have the school transferred there. The formal transfer was accomplished in 1889, and the school, which was ultimately very successful, was re-established in Albany as the New York State Library School under Dewey's direction. The school returned to Columbia's Manhattan campus in 1926. Dewey did not forget his Columbia students. He petitioned the University of the State of New York, which granted degrees to those students who agreed to submit to examinations and produce a bibliography and thesis. Two students participated, including future ALA registrar and college archivist Nina Browne. 
      During the period from 1888 to 1906 Dewey was also director of the New York State Library, and until 1900 he was secretary of the University of the State of New York as well. In that function he completely reorganized the state library, making it one of the most efficient in America, and established the system of state travelling libraries and picture collections. In 1885, he founded the New York Library Club there.  
      Traveling libraries 
      Community libraries began to flourish in the early nineteenth century. The western United States opened to expansion and further exploration, and people wanted services and opportunities to move with them. In New York, Melvil Dewey had "initiated a program of traveling libraries-collections of one hundred books sent to communities without public libraries." His efforts spurred other state organizations and private individuals to create traveling libraries. Increased library services to small or rural communities and underserved populations fortified the efforts of many to seek out education and self-improvement.  
      Metric system advocacy 
      As an enthusiastic supporter of the decimal metric system of weights and measures, Dewey established in 1876 the American Metric Bureau. Dewey also served once again as its secretary. He edited the Bureau's official publication, the Metric Bulletin (later called Metric Advocate), first issued in July 1876. Later in his life he was member of the advisory board of the All-America Standards Council (a California-based organization that promoted metrication for all countries in the Americas) and he functioned as member of the advisory board and chairman of the Metric Education Committee in the American Metric Association (today the U.S. Metric Association).  
      Lake Placid Club and other reforms 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Lake Placid from the Whiteface Mountain gondola
        
       
      
       Late in his life Dewey helped found the Lake Placid Club as a health resort in New York state. 
      His theories of spelling reform (to which end he founded the Spelling Reform Association in 1886) found some local success at Lake Placid: there is an "Adirondak Loj" in the area, and dinner menus of the club used his reformed spelling. A September 1927 menu is headed "Simpler spelin" and features dishes like hadok, poted beef with noodls, parsli or masht potato, butr, steamd rys, letis, and ys cream. It also advises guests that "All shud see the butiful after-glo on mountains to the east just before sunset. Fyn vu from Golfhous porch." 
      Lake Placid also acted as a conference center hosting meetings promoting reform movements, such as the September 1899 conference on "home science" chaired by Ellen Swallow Richards, a pioneer of what later came to be called "home economics". 
      Dewey was an early promoter of winter sports in Lake Placid and was active in arranging the 1932 Winter Olympics there. He was also a founder of the Lake Placid Club Education Foundation in 1922. Under his leadership, the Northwood School (Lake Placid, New York) prospered. He was also a founder of the Adirondack Music Festival in 1925, and served as a trustee of the Chautauqua Institution. 
      In 1926, he established a southern branch of the Lake Placid Club in Florida. Dewey supported the idea of Lake Stearns in Florida formally changing its name to Lake Placid, Florida.  
      Controversies 
      Dewey established a pattern of making powerful enemies early in life, and many of his friends found him difficult as well. As one biographer put it, "Although he did not lack friends, they were becoming a little weary of coming to his defense, so endless a process had it become."  
      Sexual harassment 
      Another biography refers to Dewey's "old nemesis—a persistent inability to control himself around women" as a chronic cause of trouble on the job. For decades, Dewey refused to stop his "unwelcome hugging, unwelcome touching, certainly unwelcome kissing" with female subordinates and others, according to biographer Wayne A. Wiegand. When Dewey opened his School of Library Economy at Columbia College to women, it was rumored that he asked for their bust sizes with their applications. Though the rumor turned out to be false he did require a photograph from each female applicant since "you cannot polish a pumpkin". 
       In 1905, during a 10-day trip to Alaska sponsored by the American Library Association (ALA), a group he co-founded, he made unwelcome advances on four prominent librarians who informed Association officials. As a result, Dewey was forced to step down from active participation in the ALA as several of his colleagues added their voices to a campaign. After 1906, Dewey was no longer an active ALA member but he was still invited to be the guest of honor at ALA's 50th anniversary meeting in 1926. Reports, allegations, and an investigation of Dewey's inappropriate and offensive behavior directed at women continued for decades after his departure from ALA. 
      
       “In exchange for a quiet departure, he was spared an ugly and public expose of one of his major flaws,” Wiegand writes. “He was never again a power player in ALA politics.”
      
      In 1929, Dewey settled out of court for $2,147 for a lawsuit brought by a former stenographer, whom he had kissed and caressed in public the previous summer. 
      
       In general, Dewey himself did not deny his actions—only their impropriety. “I have been very unconventional … as men  always who frankly show and speak of their liking for women,” he wrote. But, he insisted, it was not his fault if the targets of his “unconventional” actions took offense: “Pure women would understand my ways.”
       
      Antisemitism and racism 
      The Lake Placid Club banned Jews, blacks, and others from membership, a policy written by Dewey. Out of fear, Dewey bought the land adjacent to the Lake Placid Club to prevent Jews from purchasing it. In 1904, the New York State Board of Regents received a petition demanding Dewey's removal as state librarian because of his personal involvement in the Lake Placid Club's policy of excluding Jews and other religious and ethnic groups. While the regents declined to remove Dewey, they did issue a public rebuke, and in the summer of 1905 he resigned as a result.  
      American Library Association medal 
      At the June 2019 conference of the American Library Association, the Council voted to remove Dewey's name from its top honor, the Melvil Dewey Medal; the resolution cited Dewey's history of racism, anti-Semitism, and sexual harassment. The resolution was passed overwhelmingly with no debate. The award was renamed the ALA Medal of Excellence at the Association's January 2020 conference.  
      Selected publications 
      
       1876: Classification and subject index for cataloguing and arranging the books and pamphlets of a library, Hartford, Conn.: Case, Lockwood, &amp; Brainard Company. 
       1885: Decimal classification and relativ  index for arranging, cataloguing, and indexing public and private libraries and for pamphlets, clippings, notes, scrap books, index rerums, etc. (2nd edition) Boston: Library Bureau. 
       1886: Librarianship as a profession for college-bred women. An address delivered before the Association of collegiate alumnæ, on March 13, 1886, by Melvil Dewey. Boston: Library Bureau. 
       1887: Library notes: improved methods and labor-savers for librarians, readers and writers. Boston: Library Bureau. 
       1895: Abridged decimal classification and relative index for libraries. Boston: Library Bureau. 
       1898: Simplified library school rules. Boston, London : Library Bureau. 
       1889: Libraries as related to the educational work of the state. Albany. 
       1890: Statistics of libraries in the state of New York numbering over 300 volumes. Albany. 
       1890: Library school rules: 1. Card catalog rules; 2. Accession book rules; 3. Shelf list rules. 
       1904: A.L.A. catalog Washington: Government Printing Office.
       
      See also 
      
       Public library advocacy
       
      References 
      
       &nbsp;This article&nbsp;incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain:&nbsp;Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Dewey, Melvil". Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol.&nbsp;8 (11th&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;139.
       
      
       
        
        ^ 
          Wedgeworth, Robert (1993). World Encyclopedia of Library and Information Services (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Chicago: America Library Association. p.&nbsp;250. ISBN&nbsp;0838906095.  
        ^  
          Anna Elliott (May 1981). "Melvil Dewey: A Singular and Contentious Life" (PDF). Wilson Library Bulletin. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 10, 2008.  
        ^ Michael Dewe (1968), "Historical aspects of library supply". In: Library World Vols 70–72, Grafton (eds), pp. 27–28.  
        ^ 
          "Dewey Resources". oclc.org. 13 July 2020.  
        ^ 
          "Dr. Melvil Dewey Dead in Florida" (PDF). The New York Times. 1931-12-27. Retrieved 28 February 2021.  
        ^ a b "Melvil Dewey dead in Florida", The New York Times, December 27, 1931.  
        ^ Weigand, Wayne A., and Donald G. Davis (1994). Encyclopedia of Library History. Taylor &amp; Francis, p. 388. 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-8240-5787-2  
        ^ a b c "DEWEY, MELVIL (1851–)", in: Encyclopædia Britannica (Eleventh ed.), Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911), Cambridge University Press.  
        ^ Jim Scheppke, State Librarian (2005). Origins of the Oregon State Library Archived April 10, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. Written on the occasion of the celebration of the State Library Centennial, January 27, 2005. Retrieved June 30, 2008.  
        ^ a b c 
          "Library Bureau – Our Legacy". Archived from the original on July 13, 2011. Retrieved July 4, 2011.  
        ^ Lee, Michael M. Melvil Dewey (1851–1931): His Educational Contributions and Reforms. 1979. Print.  
        ^ Erik Larson (2003). Devil in the White City.  
        ^ Wiegand, W. A. (1998). "The "Amherst Method"&nbsp;: The Origins of the Dewey Decimal Classification Scheme". In: Libraries &amp; Culture. Vol. 33, No. 2, Spring 1998.  
        ^ Comaromi, John Philip. The eighteen editions of the Dewey Decimal Classification. Albany, Forest Press Division, 1976. p. 10.  
        ^ Classification and Subject Index for Cataloguing and Arranging the Books and Pamphlets of a Library, Amherst, Mass., 1876. p. 10.  
        ^ 
          "About Melvil Dewey, 1851-1931 (The Dewey Program at the Library of Congress)".  
        ^ 
          "Dewey Services: Improve the organization of your materials". 3 June 2021.  
        ^ Sarah K. Vann. Training for Librarianship Before 1923. Chicago: American Library Association, 1961. p. 28.  
        ^ Vann, p. 39.  
        ^ Richard E. Rubin, Foundations of Library and Information Science. 3rd edn. New York: Neal-Schuman, c2010, p. 81.  
        ^ Vann, pp. 50–52.  
        ^ Saxon, Wolfgang, "Columbia to Close Library", The New York Times, June 6, 1990.  
        ^ Biographical Note, Nina Elizabeth Browne Papers, 1860 – 1954, Smith College Archives, (accessed August 5, 2016).  
        ^ Murray, S. A. (2012). The Library: An Illustrated History. New York: Skyhorse Publishing.  
        ^ The Library History Buff. "Melvil Dewey's Library Bureau".  
        ^ Children of the Code. " Background Research Notes: CODE REFORM (ATTEMPTS) HISTORY".  
        ^ Hector Vera, "Melvil Dewey, Metric Apostle", MetricToday: The U.S. Metric Association Newsletter, vol. 45, no. 4, July–August 2010, pp. 1, 4–6.  
        ^ 
          Richards, Ellen H., ed. (1901–1908), Lake Placid Conference proceedings, Lake Placid Conference, Lake Placid, NY: American Home Economics Association.  
        ^ 
          "Melvil Dewey and the Two Lake Placids". Lake Placid.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
        ^ Wiegand, passim  
        ^ Rider, Fremont (1944), Melvil Dewey. American Library Association, p. 105.  
        ^ Wiegand, pp. 353–5ff.  
        ^ 
          Ford, Anne (June 2018). "Bringing Harassment Out of the History Books". American Libraries. American Library Association. Retrieved June 27, 2018.  
        ^ a b Kendall, Joshua. "Melvil Dewey: Compulsive Innovator". American Libraries Magazine, 2014.  
        ^ a b c 
          "Bringing Harassment Out of the History Books". American Libraries Magazine. 2018-06-01. Retrieved 2020-03-01.  
        ^ a b 
          "Bringing Harassment Out of the History Books". American Libraries Magazine. 2018-06-01. Retrieved 2020-11-27.  
        ^ 
          Garrison, Dee (2003). Apostles of culture&nbsp;: the public librarian and American society, 1876–1920. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. p.&nbsp;280. ISBN&nbsp;9780299181147. OCLC&nbsp;50285121.  
        ^ a b 
          "The Father of Modern Libraries Was a Serial Sexual Harasser". HISTORY.com. Retrieved January 8, 2018.  
        ^ 
          Citizen (1905-02-15). "STATE LIBRARIAN DEWEY.; The Real Issue Involved in the Demand for His Removal". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Retrieved 2019-02-14.  
        ^ Silver, M. M., Louis Marshall and the Rise of Jewish Ethnicity in America. Syracuse University Press, 2013. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8156-1000-7, pp. 90–97.  
        ^ 
          "STATE LIBRARIAN DEWEY IS REBUKED BY REGENTS; Must Quit Countenancing Anti-Jewish Campaign or Resign. ACT IN LAKE PLACID CASE Dewey Repeats Promise to Give Up Trusteeship of Club Which Issued Circulars Offensive to Jews". The New York Times. 1905-02-16. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Retrieved 2019-02-14.  
        ^ 
          Albanese, Andrew (2019-06-24). "ALA Votes to Strip Melvil Dewey's Name From Its Top Honor". Publishers Weekly. Retrieved 2020-02-27.  
        ^ 
          "2020 Midwinter Wrap-Up". American Libraries Magazine. 2020-02-06. Retrieved 2020-02-27.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       George Grosvenor Dawe (1932). Melvil Dewey, Seer: Inspirer: Doer, 1851–1931. Lake Placid Club, N.Y.: Melvil Dewey Biography. 
       Wayne A. Wiegand (1996). Irrepressible Reformer: A Biography of Melvil Dewey. Chicago: American Library Association. 
       
        American Library Association (1993). World encyclopedia of library and information services (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Robert Wedgeworth. pp.&nbsp;250–253 of 905. ISBN&nbsp;0838906095.
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Melvil Dewey 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library 
           Resources in other libraries
           
        
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has original works written by or about:Melvil Dewey
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Melvil Dewey.
         
       
       
      
        Quotations related to Melvil Dewey at Wikiquote 
       Works by Melvil Dewey at Project Gutenberg 
       Works by or about Melvil Dewey at Internet Archive 
       Works by Melvil Dewey at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)  
       "Melvil Dewey dead in Florida", The New York Times, December 27, 1931. 
       Library Bureau founded by Dewey in 1876. 
       Children of the Code – Dewey on Spelling Reform (including online video excerpts) 
       New York Public Library. Portraits of Dewey 
       Melvil Dewey at Find a Grave
       
       
       
         
         Non-profit organization positions 
         
         
         Preceded&nbsp;by
          
           William Isaac Fletcher
            
          President of the American Library Association 1892–1893  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Josephus Nelson Larned
           
         
         
         Preceded&nbsp;by
          
           Frederick Morgan Crunden
            
          President of the American Library Association 1890–1891  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Samuel Swett Green
           
         
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            American Library Association
           
         
         
          Founders
          
            
            
             Justin Winsor 
             Charles Ammi Cutter 
             Samuel S. Green 
             James L. Whitney 
             Melvil Dewey 
             Fred B. Perkins 
             Thomas W. Bicknell
             
           
         
         
          Notable divisions
          
            
            
             American Association of School Librarians (AASL) 
             Association for Library Collections and Technical Services (ALCTS) 
             Association for Library Service to Children (ALSC) 
             Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) 
             Association of Specialized and Cooperative Library Agencies (ASCLA) 
             Library Information Technology Association (LITA) 
             Public Library Association (PLA) 
             Reference and User Services Association (RUSA) 
             Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA)
             
           
         
         
          Magazines
          
            
            
             American Libraries 
             Booklist 
             Children and Libraries 
             Choice 
             College &amp; Research Libraries 
             Public Libraries 
             Young Adult Library Services
             
           
         
         
          Literary awards and honors
          
           
           
            
             
              Books for adults
              
                
                
                 Boyd 
                 Brody 
                 Andrew Carnegie 
                 Dartmouth 
                 Gleason library history 
                 Stonewall
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
           
            
             
              For children and young adults
              
                
                
                 Arbuthnot 
                 Batchelder 
                 Belpré 
                 Caldecott 
                 Carnegie (video) 
                 Geisel 
                 King 
                 Legacy 
                 Newbery 
                 Odyssey (audio) 
                 Schneider 
                 Sibert 
                 Stonewall 
                 Nonfiction YA 
                 Edwards 
                 Morris 
                 Printz
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
           
            
             
              Book lists
              
                
                
                 ALA Notable Books 
                 Alex Awards 
                 Amazing YA Audiobooks 
                 Best YA Books 
                 Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults 
                 Outstanding Academic Title 
                 Popular YA Paperbacks 
                 Quick Picks 
                 Rainbow List 
                 Outstanding Reference Sources 
                 Rise: A Feminist Book Project
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Presidents of the ALA 
             ALA accredited library schools 
             Banned Books Week 
             Freedom to Read Foundation 
             Library Bill of Rights 
             Rainbow Round Table 
             Black Caucus 
             United States v. American Library Ass'n
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Presidents of the American Library Association
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Winsor 
             Poole 
             Cutter 
             Crunden 
             Dewey 
             Green 
             Linderfelt 
             Fletcher 
             Dewey 
             Larned 
             H. M. Utley 
             Dana 
             Brett 
             Winsor 
             Putnam 
             Lane 
             Thwaites 
             Carr 
             Billings 
             Hosmer 
             Putnam 
             Richardson 
             Hill 
             Andrews 
             Bostwick 
             Gould 
             Hodges 
             J. I. Wyer 
             Elmendorf 
             Legler 
             Anderson 
             Wellman 
             Plummer 
             W. L. Brown 
             Montgomery 
             Bishop 
             Hadley 
             Tyler 
             Root 
             G.B. Utley 
             Jennings 
             Meyer 
             Belden 
             Locke 
             Roden 
             Eastman 
             Keogh 
             Strohm 
             Rathbone 
             Lydenberg 
             Countryman 
             Compton 
             Wilson 
             M. G. Wyer 
             Craver 
             Ferguson 
             Munn 
             Culver 
             C. H. Brown 
             Metcalf 
             Warren 
             Vitz 
             Ulveling 
             Rothrock 
             Rice 
             McDiarmid 
             Lord 
             Graham 
             Fyan 
             Downs 
             Ludington 
             Mumford 
             Richards 
             Shaw 
             Morsch 
             Greenaway 
             Powell 
             Spain 
             Morton 
             Bryan 
             Wagman 
             Castagna 
             Vosper 
             Gaver 
             Mohrhardt 
             McDonough 
             Dix 
             Bradshaw 
             Doms 
             Laich 
             Lowrie 
             Holley 
             Martin 
             Jones 
             Moon 
             Shank 
             Galvin 
             Sullivan 
             Stone 
             Nemeyer 
             Sheldon 
             Josey 
             Lynch 
             Minudri 
             Chisholm 
             Summers 
             Berger 
             Dougherty 
             Schuman 
             Miller 
             Franklin 
             Curley 
             Turock 
             Somerville 
             Ford 
             Symons 
             Long 
             Kranich 
             Berry 
             Freedman 
             Hayden 
             Brey-Casiano 
             Gorman 
             Burger 
             Roy 
             Rettig 
             Alire 
             Stevens 
             Raphael 
             Sullivan 
             Stripling 
             Young 
             Feldman 
             Todaro 
             Neal 
             Garcia-Febo 
             W. K. Brown 
             Jefferson 
             Wong 
             Pelayo-Lozada
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1 
               2
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Korea 
             Croatia 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Sweden 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Melvil_Dewey&amp;oldid=1068156643"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1851 births
       1931 deaths
       Alfred University alumni
       American librarians
       American magazine editors
       Amherst College alumni
       Columbia University people
       English-language spelling reform advocates
       Metrication in the United States
       People from Adams, New York
       People from Boston
       People from Highlands County, Florida
       Presidents of the American Library Association
       Columbia University librarians
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: url-status
       CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2020
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
       Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Project Gutenberg links
       Articles with Internet Archive links
       Articles with LibriVox links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 26 elements
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       Magyar
       മലയാളം
       مصرى
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Simple English
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 26 January 2022, at 22:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
