
 
  
   
  View source for Information science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   View source for Information science 
    
    
     ← Information science
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reasons:  
      
       
        
        
          
           
           
            
             You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia.
             
            Editing from your IP address range (185.242.5.0/24) has been blocked (disabled) on all Wikimedia wikis until 20:14, 15 August 2023 by Martin Urbanec (meta.wikimedia.org) for the following reason:  
             
            
             No open proxies: please read the FAQ should you be affected
             
            This block began on 20:14, 15 August 2020 
            Your current IP address is 185.242.5.178. Please include all above details in any queries you make. 
            If you believe you were blocked by mistake, you can find additional information and instructions in the No open proxies global policy. Otherwise, to discuss the block post a request for review on Meta-Wiki or send an email to the stewards Volunteer Response Team queue at stewards@wikimedia.org including all above details.  
            
         
        
        
       
        
        
          You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia due to a block affecting this IP address.
         This does not affect your ability to read Wikipedia pages.
        
         
        Most people who see this message have done nothing wrong. Some kinds of blocks restrict editing from specific service providers or telecom companies in response to recent abuse or vandalism, and affect other users who are unrelated to that abuse. See below if you do not believe you have done anything wrong.
         
        Editing from 185.242.4.0/22 has been blocked (disabled) by ‪ST47‬ for the following reason(s):  
         
          
          
           
          The IP address that you are currently using has been blocked because it is believed to be a web host provider or colocation provider. To prevent abuse, web hosts and colocation providers may be blocked from editing Wikipedia. 
          
           You will not be able to edit Wikipedia using a web host or colocation provider because it hides your IP address, much like a proxy or VPN. 
           We recommend that you attempt to use another connection to edit. For example, if you use a proxy or VPN to connect to the internet, turn it off when editing Wikipedia. If you edit using a mobile connection, try using a Wi-Fi connection, and vice versa. If you have a Wikipedia account, please log in. If you do not have any other way to edit Wikipedia, you will need to request an IP block exemption. 
           If you are confident that you are not using a web host, you may appeal this block by adding the following text on your talk page: }. You must fill in the blank with your IP address for this block to be investigated. Your IP address can be determined here. Alternatively, if you wish to keep your IP address private you can use the unblock ticket request system. There are several reasons you might be editing using the IP address of a web host or colocation provider (such as if you are using VPN software or a business network); please use this method of appeal only if you think your IP address is in fact not a web host or colocation provider. 
           Administrators: The IP block exemption user right should only be applied to allow users to edit using web host in exceptional circumstances, and requests should usually be directed to the functionaries team via email. If you intend to give the IPBE user right, a CheckUser needs to take a look at the account. This can be requested most easily at SPI Quick Checkuser Requests. Unblocking an IP or IP range with this template is highly discouraged without at least contacting the blocking administrator.  
          
          
         
        This block has been set to expire: 21:09, 18 June 2023.  
        
        Even when blocked, you will usually still be able to edit your user talk page, and email administrators and other editors. 
        For information on how to proceed, first see the FAQ for blocked users and the guideline on block appeals. The guide to appealing blocks may also be helpful. 
        Other useful links: Blocking policy · Help:I have been blocked  
        
     
      
     
      You can view and copy the source of this page:
     ===European documentation===

The discipline of '']'', which marks the earliest theoretical foundations of modern information science, emerged in the late part of the 19th century in Europe together with several more scientific indexes whose purpose was to organize scholarly literature. Many information science historians cite ] and ] as the fathers of information science with the founding of the International Institute of Bibliography (IIB) in 1895.&lt;ref&gt;Rayward, W. B. (1994). International federation for information and documentation. In W. A. Wiegand, &amp; D. G. David Jr. (Eds.), The encyclopedia of library history (pp. 290–294). New York: Garland Publishing, Inc.&lt;/ref&gt; A second generation of European Documentalists emerged after the ], most notably ]. However, "information science" as a term is not popularly used in academia until sometime in the latter part of the 20th century.&lt;ref&gt;Day, Ronald. ''Modern Invention of Information''. Carbondale, Il.: Southern Illinois University Press, 2001: 7&lt;/ref&gt;

Documentalists emphasized the utilitarian integration of technology and technique toward specific social goals. According to Ronald Day, "As an organized system of techniques and technologies, documentation was understood as a player in the historical development of global organization in modernity – indeed, a major player inasmuch as that organization was dependent on the organization and transmission of information."&lt;ref&gt;Day, Ronald. ''Modern Invention of Information.'' Carbondale, Il.: Southern Illinois University Press, 2001: 7&lt;/ref&gt;
Otlet and Lafontaine (who won the ] in 1913) not only envisioned later technical innovations but also projected a global vision for information and ] that speaks directly to postwar visions of a global "information society". Otlet and Lafontaine established numerous organizations dedicated to standardization, bibliography, international associations, and consequently, international cooperation. These organizations were fundamental for ensuring international production in commerce, information, communication and modern economic development, and they later found their global form in such institutions as the ] and the ]. Otlet designed the ], based on ]’s decimal classification system.&lt;ref name="autogenerated1"&gt;Day, Ronald. ''Modern Invention of Information.'' Carbondale, Il.: Southern Illinois University Press, 2001:&lt;/ref&gt;

Although he lived decades before computers and networks emerged, what he discussed prefigured what ultimately became the ]. His vision of a great network of ] focused on ]s and included the notions of ]s, ], remote access, and ]s.

Otlet not only imagined that all the world's knowledge should be interlinked and made available remotely to anyone, but he also proceeded to build a structured document collection. This collection involved standardized paper sheets and cards filed in custom-designed cabinets according to a hierarchical index (which culled information worldwide from diverse sources) and a commercial information retrieval service (which answered written requests by copying relevant information from index cards). Users of this service were even warned if their query was likely to produce more than 50 results per search.&lt;ref name="autogenerated1" /&gt;
By 1937 documentation had formally been institutionalized, as evidenced by the founding of the American Documentation Institute (ADI), later called the ].

     
     Return to Information science. 
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science"
     
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Page information
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
    
 
