
 
  
   
  Document - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Document 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Record (something) in written, photographic, or other form
      
      
      
       For other uses, see Document (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       For technical reasons, several Pg. 99 albums redirect here. For these albums, see Document 5, Document 7, Document 8 and Document 12.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Several common types of documents: a birth certificate, business reports, a legal document (a restraining order), and a statement
        
       
       
      A document is a written, drawn, presented, or memorialized representation of thought, often the manifestation of non-fictional, as well as fictional, content. The word originates from the Latin Documentum, which denotes a "teaching" or "lesson": the verb doceō denotes "to teach". In the past, the word was usually used to denote written proof useful as evidence of a truth or fact. In the computer age, "document" usually denotes a primarily textual computer file, including its structure and format, e.g. fonts, colors, and images. Contemporarily, "document" is not defined by its transmission medium, e.g., paper, given the existence of electronic documents. "Documentation" is distinct because it has more denotations than "document". Documents are also distinguished from "realia", which are three-dimensional objects that would otherwise satisfy the definition of "document" because they memorialize or represent thought; documents are considered more as 2-dimensional representations. While documents can have large varieties of customization, all documents can be shared freely and have the right to do so, creativity can be represented by documents, also. History, events, examples, opinions, etc. all can be expressed in documents.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Abstract definitions 
        2 Kinds 
        3 Drafting 
        4 Media 
        5 In law 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        
       
      Abstract definitions 
      The concept of "document" has been defined by Suzanne Briet as "any concrete or symbolic indication, preserved or recorded, for reconstructing or for proving a phenomenon, whether physical or mental." 
      An often-cited article concludes that "the evolving notion of document" among Jonathan Priest, Otlet, Briet, Schürmeyer, and the other documentalists increasingly emphasized whatever functioned as a document rather than traditional physical forms of documents. The shift to digital technology would seem to make this distinction even more important. Levy's thoughtful analyses have shown that an emphasis on the technology of digital documents has impeded our understanding of digital documents as documents (e.g., Levy, 1994). A conventional document, such as a mail message or a technical report, exists physically in digital technology as a string of bits, as does everything else in a digital environment. As an object of study, it has been made into a document. It has become physical evidence by those who study it. 
      "Document" is defined in library and information science and documentation science as a fundamental, abstract idea: the word denotes everything that may be represented or memorialized to serve as evidence. The classic example provided by Suzanne Briet is an antelope: "An antelope running wild on the plains of Africa should not be considered a document she rules. But if it were to be captured, taken to a zoo and made an object of study, it has been made into a document. It has become physical evidence being used by those who study it. Indeed, scholarly articles written about the antelope are secondary documents, since the antelope itself is the primary document."  This opinion has been interpreted as an early expression of actor–network theory.  
      Kinds 
      A document can be structured, like tabular documents, lists, forms, or scientific chart, semi-structured like a book or a newspaper article, or unstructured like a handwritten note. Documents are sometimes classified as secret, private, or public. They may also be described as drafts or proofs. When a document is copied, the source is denominated the "original". 
      Documents are used in numerous fields, e.g.:  
      
       Academia: manuscript, thesis, paper, journal, chart, and technical drawing 
       Media: mock-up, script, image, photography, and newspaper article 
       Administration, law, and politics: application, brief, certificate, commission, constitutional document, form, gazette, identity document, license, manifesto, summons, census, and white paper 
       Business: invoice, quote, RFP, proposal, contract, packing slip, manifest, report (detailed and summary), spread sheet, MSDS, waybill, bill of lading (BOL), financial statement, nondisclosure agreement (NDA), mutual nondisclosure agreement (MNDA), and user guide 
       Geography and planning: topographic map, cadastre, legend, and architectural plan
       
      Such standard documents can be drafted based on a template.  
      Drafting 
      The page layout of a document is how information is graphically arranged in the space of the document, e.g., on a page. If the appearance of the document is of concern, the page layout is generally the responsibility of a graphic designer. Typography concerns the design of letter and symbol forms and their physical arrangement in the document (see typesetting). Information design concerns the effective communication of information, especially in industrial documents and public signs. Simple textual documents may not require visual design and may be drafted only by an author, clerk, or transcriber. Forms may require a visual design for their initial fields, but not to complete the forms.  
      Media 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A page of a birth register for Jews from 1859
        
       
       
      Traditionally, the medium of a document was paper and the information was applied to it in ink, either by handwriting (to make a manuscript) or by a mechanical process (e.g., a printing press or laser printer). Today, some short documents also may consist of sheets of paper stapled together. 
      Historically, documents were inscribed with ink on papyrus (starting in ancient Egypt) or parchment; scratched as runes or carved on stone using a sharp tool, e.g., the Tablets of Stone described in the Bible; stamped or incised in clay and then baked to make clay tablets, e.g., in the Sumerian and other Mesopotamian civilizations. The papyrus or parchment was often rolled into a scroll or cut into sheets and bound into a codex (book). 
      Contemporary electronic means of memorializing and displaying documents include:  
      
       Monitor of a desktop computer, laptop, tablet PC, et cetera; optionally with a printer to produce a hard copy; 
       Personal digital assistant (PDA); 
       Dedicated e-book device; 
       Electronic paper, typically, using the Portable Document Format (PDF); 
       Information appliance; 
       Digital audio player; and 
       Radio and television service provider.
       
      Digital documents usually require a specific file format to be presentable in a specific medium. See also Schöpfel et al. (2020) about data documents   
      In law 
      Documents in all forms frequently serve as material evidence in criminal and civil proceedings. The forensic analysis of such a document is within the scope of questioned document examination. To catalog and manage the large number of documents that may be produced during litigation, Bates numbering is often applied to all documents in the lawsuit so that each document has a unique, arbitrary, identification number.  
      See also 
      
       Archive 
       Book 
       Documentality 
       Documentation 
       History of the book 
       Identity document 
       Letterhead 
       Realia (library science) 
       Travel document
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Briet. 1951. 7. Quoted in Buckland, 1991.  
         ^  Levy, D. M. "Fixed or Fluid? Document Stability and New Media." 1994. In European Conference on Hypertext Technology 1994 Proceedings, pp. 24–31. New York: Association for Computing Machinery. Retrieved 18 October 2011 from http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.119.8813&amp;rep=rep1&amp;type=pdf Archived 2013-06-06 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Buckland, M. "What Is a Digital Document?" 1998. In Document Numérique Paris. 2(2).  Archived 2011-10-02 at the Wayback Machine.  
         ^ Buckland, Michael. 2018. “Document theory”. Knowledge Organization 45, no. 5: 425-436. Also available in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, ed. Birger Hjørland, coed. Claudio Gnoli, http://www.isko.org/cyclo/document   
         ^  Schöpfel, Joachim, Dominic Farace, Hélène Prost, Antonella Zane and Birger Hjørland. 2020. "Data Documents". In ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, eds. Birger Hjørland and Claudio Gnoli. Available at: https://www.isko.org/cyclo/data_documents  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Documents.
         
       
       
      
       
       
        Briet, S. (1951). Qu'est-ce que la documentation? Paris: Documentaires Industrielles et Techniques. 
        Buckland, M. (1991). Information and information systems. New York: Greenwood Press. 
        Frohmann, Bernd (2009). Revisiting "what is a document?", Journal of Documentation, 65(2), 291–303. 
        Hjerppe, R. (1994). A framework for the description of generalized documents. Advances in Knowledge Organization, 4, 173–180. 
        Houser, L. (1986). Documents: The domain of library and information science. Library and Information Science Research, 8, 163–188. 
        Larsen, P.S. (1999). Books and bytes: Preserving documents for posterity. Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 50(11), 1020–1027. 
        Lund, N. W. (2008). Document theory. Annual Review of Information Science and Technology, 43, 399–432. 
        Riles, A. (Ed.) (2006). Documents: Artifacts of Modern Knowledge. University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, MI. 
        Schamber, L. (1996). What is a document? Rethinking the concept in uneasy times. Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 47, 669–671. 
        Signer, Beat: What is Wrong with Digital Documents? A Conceptual Model for Structural Cross-Media Content Composition and Reuse, In Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Conceptual Modeling (ER 2010), Vancouver, Canada, November 2010. 
        Smith, Barry. “How to Do Things with Documents”, Rivista di Estetica, 50 (2012), 179–198. 
        Smith, Barry. “Document Acts”, in Anita Konzelmann-Ziv, Hans Bernhard Schmid (eds.), 2013. Institutions, Emotions, and Group Agents.Contributions to Social Ontology (Philosophical Studies Series), Dordrecht: Springer 
        Ørom, A. (2007). The concept of information versus the concept of a document. I: Document (re)turn. Contributions from a research field in transition. Ed. By Roswitha Skare, Niels Windfeld Lund &amp; Andreas Vårheim. Frankfurt is Main: Peter Lang. (pp.&nbsp;53–72).
        
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             Germany 
             Latvia 
              
               2
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Document&amp;oldid=1071015494"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Documents
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2018
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Latviešu
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Scots
       Sicilianu
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Українська
       اردو
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 12:40&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
