
 
  
   
  Search engine (computing) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Search engine (computing) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       System to help searching for information
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that this article be merged into Search engine. (Discuss) Proposed since July 2021.
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (August 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing citations to additional sources.Find sources:&nbsp;"Search engine"&nbsp;computing&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (August 2014)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      A search engine is an information retrieval system designed to help find information stored on a computer system. The search results are usually presented in a list and are commonly called hits. Search engines help to minimize the time required to find information and the amount of information which must be consulted, akin to other techniques for managing information overload. 
      The most public, visible form of a search engine is a Web search engine which searches for information on the World Wide Web.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 How search engines work 
        2 Types of search engines 
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        
       
      How search engines work 
      Search engines provide an interface to a group of items that enables users to specify criteria about an item of interest and have the engine find the matching items. The criteria are referred to as a search query. In the case of text search engines, the search query is typically expressed as a set of words that identify the desired concept that one or more documents may contain. There are several styles of search query syntax that vary in strictness. It can also switch names within the search engines from previous sites. Whereas some text search engines require users to enter two or three words separated by white space, other search engines may enable users to specify entire documents, pictures, sounds, and various forms of natural language. Some search engines apply improvements to search queries to increase the likelihood of providing a quality set of items through a process known as query expansion. Query understanding methods can be used as standardize query language.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Index-based search engine
        
       
       
      The list of items that meet the criteria specified by the query is typically sorted, or ranked. Ranking items by relevance (from highest to lowest) reduces the time required to find the desired information. Probabilistic search engines rank items based on measures of similarity (between each item and the query, typically on a scale of 1 to 0, 1 being most similar) and sometimes popularity or authority (see Bibliometrics) or use relevance feedback. Boolean search engines typically only return items which match exactly without regard to order, although the term boolean search engine may simply refer to the use of boolean-style syntax (the use of operators AND, OR, NOT, and XOR) in a probabilistic context. 
      To provide a set of matching items that are sorted according to some criteria quickly, a search engine will typically collect metadata about the group of items under consideration beforehand through a process referred to as indexing. The index typically requires a smaller amount of computer storage, which is why some search engines only store the indexed information and not the full content of each item, and instead provide a method of navigating to the items in the search engine result page. Alternatively, the search engine may store a copy of each item in a cache so that users can see the state of the item at the time it was indexed or for archive purposes or to make repetitive processes work more efficiently and quickly. 
      Other types of search engines do not store an index. Crawler, or spider type search engines (a.k.a. real-time search engines) may collect and assess items at the time of the search query, dynamically considering additional items based on the contents of a starting item (known as a seed, or seed URL in the case of an Internet crawler). Meta search engines store neither an index nor a cache and instead simply reuse the index or results of one or more other search engine to provide an aggregated, final set of results.  
      Types of search engines 
      
       
        By source
       
       
      
       Desktop search 
       Federated search 
       Human search engine 
       Metasearch engine 
       Multisearch 
       Search aggregator 
       Web search engine
       
      
       
        By content type
       
       
      
       Audio search engine 
       Full text search 
       Image search 
       Video search engine
       
      
       
        By interface
       
       
      
       Incremental search 
       Instant answer 
       Semantic search 
       Selection-based search 
       Voice Search
       
      
       
        By topic
       
       
      
       Bibliographic database 
       Enterprise search 
       Medical literature retrieval 
       Vertical search
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Automatic summarization 
        Emanuel Goldberg (inventor of early search engine) 
        Index (search engine) 
        Inverted index 
        List of search engines 
        Search as a service 
        List of enterprise search vendors 
        Search engine optimization 
        Search suggest drop-down list 
        Solver (computer science) 
        Spamdexing 
        SQL 
        Text mining
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Voorhees, E.M. Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval. National Institute of Standards and Technology. March 2000.  
        
       
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Internet search
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Web search engine (List) 
             Metasearch engine 
             Multimedia search 
             Collaborative search engine 
             Cross-language search 
             Local search 
             Vertical search 
             Social search 
             Image search 
             Audio search 
             Video search engine 
             Enterprise search 
             Semantic search 
             Natural language search engine 
             Voice search
             
           
         
         
          Tools
          
            
            
             Search by sound 
             Search engine marketing 
             Search engine optimization 
             Evaluation measures 
             Search oriented architecture 
             Selection-based search
             
            
             Document retrieval 
             Text mining 
             Web crawler 
             Multisearch 
             Federated search 
             Search aggregator 
             Index/Web indexing 
             Focused crawler 
             Spider trap 
             Robots exclusion standard 
             Distributed web crawling 
             Web archiving 
             Website mirroring software 
             Web query 
             Web query classification
             
           
         
         
          Protocolsand standards
          
            
            
             Z39.50 
             Search/Retrieve Web Service 
             Search/Retrieve via URL 
             OpenSearch 
             Representational State Transfer 
             Website Parse Template 
             Wide area information server
             
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Search engine 
             Desktop search 
             Online search
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Search_engine_(computing)&amp;oldid=1059262315"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information retrieval systems
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be merged from July 2021
       All articles to be merged
       Articles lacking in-text citations from August 2014
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Articles needing additional references from August 2014
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2007
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Boarisch
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Interlingua
       Ирон
       Italiano
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kurdî
       Latviešu
       Lingála
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       მარგალური
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       پښتو
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Seeltersk
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Slovenčina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 December 2021, at 12:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
