
 
  
   
  Knowledge - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Knowledge 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
      
       For other uses, see Knowledge (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Epistemology
        
        
          
           
           
            Category 
            Index 
            Outline
            
          
        
        
          Core concepts  
          
           Belief 
           Justification 
           Knowledge 
           Truth
           
        
        
          
           Distinctions  
          
           A priori vs. A posteriori 
           Analytic vs. synthetic
           
        
        
          
           Schools of thought  
          
           Empiricism 
           Naturalism 
           Pragmatism 
           Rationalism 
           Relativism 
           Skepticism
           
        
        
          
           Topics and views  
          
           Certainty 
           Coherentism 
           Contextualism 
           Dogmatism 
           Experience 
           Fallibilism 
           Foundationalism 
           Induction 
           Infallibilism 
           Infinitism 
           Perspectivism 
           Rationality 
           Reason 
           Solipsism
           
        
        
          
           Specialized domains of inquiry  
          
           Applied epistemology 
           Evolutionary epistemology 
           Feminist epistemology 
           Formal epistemology 
           Metaepistemology 
           Social epistemology
           
        
        
          
           Notable epistemologists  
          
           René Descartes 
           Sextus Empiricus 
           Edmund Gettier 
           David Hume 
           Immanuel Kant 
           W. V. O. Quine 
           more...
           
        
        
          
           Related fields  
          
           Epistemic logic 
           Philosophy of mind 
           Philosophy of perception 
           Philosophy of science 
           Probability
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       Familiarity, awareness, or understanding of information or skills
       
      Knowledge is a familiarity or awareness, of someone or something, such as facts (descriptive knowledge), skills (procedural knowledge), or objects (acquaintance knowledge) contributing to ones understanding. By most accounts, knowledge can be acquired in many different ways and from many sources, including but not limited to perception, reason, memory, testimony, scientific inquiry, education, and practice. The philosophical study of knowledge is called epistemology. 
      The term "knowledge" can refer to a theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. It can be implicit (as with practical skill or expertise) or explicit (as with the theoretical understanding of a subject); formal or informal; systematic or particular. The philosopher Plato argued that there was a distinction between knowledge and true belief in the Theaetetus, leading many to attribute to him a definition of knowledge as "justified true belief". The difficulties with this definition raised by the Gettier problem have been the subject of extensive debate in epistemology for more than half a century.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Theories of knowledge 
        2 Self-knowledge 
        3 The value of knowledge 
        4 Scientific knowledge 
        5 Situated knowledge 
        6 Partial knowledge 
        7 Religious concepts of knowledge 
          
          7.1 Christianity 
          7.2 Gnosticism 
          7.3 Hinduism 
          7.4 Islam 
          7.5 Judaism 
           
        8 See also 
        9 References 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Theories of knowledge 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Robert Reid, Knowledge (1896). Thomas Jefferson Building, Washington, D.C.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Epistemology
       
      
      
       The eventual demarcation of philosophy from science was made possible by the notion that philosophy's core was "theory of knowledge," a theory distinct from the sciences because it was their foundation... Without this idea of a "theory of knowledge," it is hard to imagine what "philosophy" could have been in the age of modern science.
       
        — Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature
       
       
      Knowledge is the primary subject of the field of epistemology, which studies what we know, how we come to know it, and what it means to know something. Defining knowledge is an important aspect of epistemology, because it does not suffice to have a belief; one must also have good reasons for that belief, because otherwise there would be no reason to prefer one belief over another. 
      The definition of knowledge is a matter of ongoing debate among epistemologists. The classical definition, described but not ultimately endorsed by Plato, specifies that a statement must meet three criteria in order to be considered knowledge: it must be justified, true, and believed. Epistemologists today generally agree that these conditions are not sufficient, as various Gettier cases are thought to demonstrate. There are a number of alternative definitions which have been proposed, including Robert Nozick's proposal that all instances of knowledge must 'track the truth' and Simon Blackburn's proposal that those who have a justified true belief 'through a defect, flaw, or failure' fail to have knowledge. Richard Kirkham suggests that our definition of knowledge requires that the evidence for the belief necessitates its truth. 
      In contrast to this approach, Ludwig Wittgenstein observed, following Moore's paradox, that one can say "He believes it, but it isn't so," but not "He knows it, but it isn't so." He goes on to argue that these do not correspond to distinct mental states, but rather to distinct ways of talking about conviction. What is different here is not the mental state of the speaker, but the activity in which they are engaged. For example, on this account, to know that the kettle is boiling is not to be in a particular state of mind, but to perform a particular task with the statement that the kettle is boiling. Wittgenstein sought to bypass the difficulty of definition by looking to the way "knowledge" is used in natural languages. He saw knowledge as a case of a family resemblance. Following this idea, "knowledge" has been reconstructed as a cluster concept that points out relevant features but that is not adequately captured by any definition.  
      Self-knowledge 
      
      
       Main article: Self-knowledge (psychology)
       
      “Self-knowledge” usually refers to a person's knowledge of their own sensations, thoughts, beliefs, and other mental states. A number of questions regarding self-knowledge have been the subject of extensive debates in philosophy, including whether self-knowledge differs from other types of knowledge, whether we have privileged self-knowledge compared to knowledge of other minds, and the nature of our acquaintance with ourselves. David Hume expressed skepticism about whether we could ever have self-knowledge over and above our immediate awareness of a "bundle of perceptions", which was part of his broader skepticism about personal identity.  
      The value of knowledge 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Los portadores de la antorcha (The Torch-Bearers) – Sculpture by Anna Hyatt Huntington symbolizing the transmission of knowledge from one generation to the next (Ciudad Universitaria, Madrid, Spain)
        
       
       
      It is generally assumed that knowledge is more valuable than mere true belief. If so, what is the explanation? A formulation of the value problem in epistemology first occurs in Plato's Meno. Socrates points out to Meno that a man who knew the way to Larissa could lead others there correctly. But so, too, could a man who had true beliefs about how to get there, even if he had not gone there or had any knowledge of Larissa. Socrates says that it seems that both knowledge and true opinion can guide action. Meno then wonders why knowledge is valued more than true belief and why knowledge and true belief are different. Socrates responds that knowledge is more valuable than mere true belief because it is tethered or justified. Justification, or working out the reason for a true belief, locks down true belief. 
      The problem is to identify what (if anything) makes knowledge more valuable than mere true belief, or that makes knowledge more valuable than a mere minimal conjunction of its components, such as justification, safety, sensitivity, statistical likelihood, and anti-Gettier conditions, on a particular analysis of knowledge that conceives of knowledge as divided into components (to which knowledge-first epistemological theories, which posit knowledge as fundamental, are notable exceptions). The value problem re-emerged in the philosophical literature on epistemology in the twenty-first century following the rise of virtue epistemology in the 1980s, partly because of the obvious link to the concept of value in ethics. 
      In contemporary philosophy, epistemologists including Ernest Sosa, John Greco, Jonathan Kvanvig, Linda Zagzebski, and Duncan Pritchard have defended virtue epistemology as a solution to the value problem. They argue that epistemology should also evaluate the "properties" of people as epistemic agents (i.e. intellectual virtues), rather than merely the properties of propositions and propositional mental attitudes.  
      Scientific knowledge 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of science
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Sir Francis Bacon, "Knowledge is Power"
        
       
       
      The development of the scientific method has made a significant contribution to how knowledge of the physical world and its phenomena is acquired. To be termed scientific, a method of inquiry must be based on gathering observable and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning and experimentation. The scientific method consists of the collection of data through observation and experimentation, and the formulation and testing of hypotheses. Science, and the nature of scientific knowledge have also become the subject of philosophy. As science itself has developed, scientific knowledge now includes a broader usage in the soft sciences such as biology and the social sciences – discussed elsewhere as meta-epistemology, or genetic epistemology, and to some extent related to "theory of cognitive development". Note that "epistemology" is the study of knowledge and how it is acquired. Science is "the process used everyday to logically complete thoughts through inference of facts determined by calculated experiments." Sir Francis Bacon was critical in the historical development of the scientific method; his works established and popularized an inductive methodology for scientific inquiry. His aphorism, "knowledge is power", is found in the Meditations Sacrae (1597). 
      Until recent times, at least in the Western tradition, it was simply taken for granted that knowledge was something possessed only by humans – and probably adult humans at that. Sometimes the notion might stretch to Society-as-such, as in (e.&nbsp;g.) "the knowledge possessed by the Coptic culture" (as opposed to its individual members), but that was not assured either. Nor was it usual to consider unconscious knowledge in any systematic way until this approach was popularized by Freud.  
      Situated knowledge 
      
      
       "Situated knowledges" redirects here. For the Donna Haraway essay, see Situated Knowledges.
       
      Situated knowledge is knowledge specific to a particular situation. It was used by Donna Haraway as an extension of the feminist approaches of "successor science" suggested by Sandra Harding, one which "offers a more adequate, richer, better account of a world, in order to live in it well and in critical, reflexive relation to our own as well as others' practices of domination and the unequal parts of privilege and oppression that makes up all positions." This situation partially transforms science into a narrative, which Arturo Escobar explains as, "neither fictions nor supposed facts." This narrative of situation is historical textures woven of fact and fiction, and as Escobar explains further, "even the most neutral scientific domains are narratives in this sense," insisting that rather than a purpose dismissing science as a trivial matter of contingency, "it is to treat (this narrative) in the most serious way, without succumbing to its mystification as 'the truth' or to the ironic skepticism common to many critiques." 
      Haraway's argument stems from the limitations of the human perception, as well as the overemphasis of the sense of vision in science. According to Haraway, vision in science has been, "used to signify a leap out of the marked body and into a conquering gaze from nowhere." This is the "gaze that mythically inscribes all the marked bodies, that makes the unmarked category claim the power to see and not be seen, to represent while escaping representation." This causes a limitation of views in the position of science itself as a potential player in the creation of knowledge, resulting in a position of "modest witness". This is what Haraway terms a "god trick", or the aforementioned representation while escaping representation. In order to avoid this, "Haraway perpetuates a tradition of thought which emphasizes the importance of the subject in terms of both ethical and political accountability". 
      Some methods of generating knowledge, such as trial and error, or learning from experience, tend to create highly situational knowledge. Situational knowledge is often embedded in language, culture, or traditions. This integration of situational knowledge is an allusion to the community, and its attempts at collecting subjective perspectives into an embodiment "of views from somewhere." Knowledge is also said to be related to the capacity of acknowledgement in human beings. 
      Even though Haraway's arguments are largely based on feminist studies, this idea of different worlds, as well as the skeptic stance of situated knowledge is present in the main arguments of post-structuralism. Fundamentally, both argue the contingency of knowledge on the presence of history; power, and geography, as well as the rejection of universal rules or laws or elementary structures; and the idea of power as an inherited trait of objectification.  
      Partial knowledge 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The parable of the blind men and the elephant suggests that people tend to project their partial experiences as the whole truth
        
       
       
      One discipline of epistemology focuses on partial knowledge. In most cases, it is not possible to understand an information domain exhaustively; our knowledge is always incomplete or partial. Most real problems have to be solved by taking advantage of a partial understanding of the problem context and problem data, unlike the typical math problems one might solve at school, where all data is given and one is given a complete understanding of formulas necessary to solve them (False consensus effect). 
      This idea is also present in the concept of bounded rationality which assumes that in real-life situations people often have a limited amount of information and make decisions accordingly.  
      Religious concepts of knowledge 
      Christianity 
      In many expressions of Christianity, such as Catholicism and Anglicanism, knowledge is one of the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit. 
      "The knowledge that comes from the Holy Spirit, however, is not limited to human knowledge; it is a special gift, which leads us to grasp, through creation, the greatness and love of God and his profound relationship with every creature." (Pope Francis, papal audience May 21, 2014)  
      Gnosticism 
      In Gnostic beliefs, everyone is said to possess a piece of the highest good or Ultimate God deep within themselves that had fallen from the spiritual world into the bodies of humans, sometimes called a divine spark. It is trapped in their material bodies created by the inferior God or Demiurge unless secret knowledge from the outside universe called gnosis is achieved. The one who brings such knowledge is considered the savior or redeemer.  
      Hinduism 
      विद्या दान (Vidya Daan) i.e. knowledge sharing is a major part of Daan, a tenet of all Dharmic Religions. Hindu Scriptures present two kinds of knowledge, Paroksh Gyan and Prataksh Gyan. Paroksh Gyan (also spelled Paroksha-Jnana) is secondhand knowledge: knowledge obtained from books, hearsay, etc. Pratyaksh Gyan (also spelled Pratyaksha-Jnana) is the knowledge borne of direct experience, i.e., knowledge that one discovers for oneself. Jnana yoga ("path of knowledge") is one of three main types of yoga expounded by Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita. (It is compared and contrasted with Bhakti Yoga and Karma yoga.)  
      Islam 
      In Islam, knowledge (Arabic: علم, ʿilm) is given great significance. "The Knowing" (al-ʿAlīm) is one of the 99 names reflecting distinct attributes of God. The Qur'an asserts that knowledge comes from God (2:239) and various hadith encourage the acquisition of knowledge. Muhammad is reported to have said "Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave" and "Verily the men of knowledge are the inheritors of the prophets". Islamic scholars, theologians and jurists are often given the title alim, meaning "knowledgeble".  
      Judaism 
      In Jewish tradition, knowledge (Hebrew: דעת da'ath) is considered one of the most valuable traits a person can acquire. Observant Jews recite three times a day in the Amidah "Favor us with knowledge, understanding and discretion that come from you. Exalted are you, Existent-One, the gracious giver of knowledge." The Tanakh states, "A wise man gains power, and a man of knowledge maintains power", and "knowledge is chosen above gold". 
      The Old Testament's tree of the knowledge of good and evil contained the knowledge that separated Man from God: "And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil..." (Genesis 3:22)  
      See also 
      
      
       Main category: Knowledge
       
      
       Omniscience 
       Outline of knowledge – guide to the subject of knowledge presented as a tree structured list of its subtopics. 
       Outline of human intelligence - list of subtopics in tree structure 
       Analytic-synthetic distinction 
       Decolonization of knowledge 
       Desacralization of knowledge 
       Descriptive knowledge 
       Epistemic modal logic 
       Gnosticism 
       Inductive inference 
       Inductive probability 
       Intelligence 
       Knowledge transfer 
       Metaknowledge 
       Procedural knowledge 
       Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Grimm, Stephen R. (2014), Fairweather, Abrol (ed.), "Understanding as Knowledge of Causes", Virtue Epistemology Naturalized: Bridges Between Virtue Epistemology and Philosophy of Science, Synthese Library, Cham: Springer International Publishing, vol.&nbsp;366, pp.&nbsp;329–345, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-04672-3_19, ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-04672-3, retrieved 28 November 2021  
         ^ 
           "knowledge: definition of knowledge in Oxford dictionary (American English) (US)". oxforddictionaries.com. Archived from the original on 14 July 2010.  
         ^ 
           Steup, Matthias; Neta, Ram (2020), "Epistemology", in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2020&nbsp;ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, retrieved 19 November 2021  
         ^ 
           Paul Boghossian (2007), Fear of Knowledge: Against relativism and constructivism, Oxford: Clarendon Press, ISBN&nbsp;978-0199230419, Chapter 7, pp. 95–101.  
         ^ 
           "The Analysis of Knowledge". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 13 June 2020.  
         ^ 
           Steup, Matthias; Neta, Ram (2020), "Epistemology", in Zalta, Edward N. (ed.), The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2020&nbsp;ed.), Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, retrieved 19 November 2021  
         ^ In Plato's Theaetetus, Socrates and Theaetetus discuss three definitions of knowledge: knowledge as nothing but perception, knowledge as true judgment, and, finally, knowledge as a true judgment with an account. Each of these definitions is shown to be unsatisfactory.  
         ^ 
           Kirkham, Richard L. (October 1984). "Does the Gettier Problem Rest on a Mistake?". Mind. New Series. 93 (372): 501–513. doi:10.1093/mind/XCIII.372.501. JSTOR&nbsp;2254258. jstor (subscription required)  
         ^ Ludwig Wittgenstein, On Certainty, remark 42  
         ^ Gottschalk-Mazouz, N. (2008): "Internet and the flow of knowledge," in: Hrachovec, H.; Pichler, A. (Hg.): Philosophy of the Information Society. Proceedings of the 30. International Ludwig Wittgenstein Symposium Kirchberg am Wechsel, Austria 2007. Volume 2, Frankfurt, Paris, Lancaster, New Brunswik: Ontos, S. 215–232. 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 May 2015. Retrieved 24 May 2015.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ a b c 
           "Self-Knowledge". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 16 July 2020.  
         ^ 
           Plato (2002). Five Dialogues. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Pub. Co. pp.&nbsp;89–90, 97b–98a. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-87220-633-5.  
         ^ 
           Pritchard, Duncan; Turri, John. "The Value of Knowledge". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 24 February 2016.  
         ^ 
           Pritchard, Duncan (April 2007). "Recent Work on Epistemic Value". American Philosophical Quarterly. 44 (2): 85–110. JSTOR&nbsp;20464361.  
         ^ 
           Kvanvig, Jonathan L. (2003). The Value of Knowledge and the Pursuit of Understanding. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9781139442282.  
         ^ 
           "Science – Definition of science by Merriam-Webster". merriam-webster.com.  
         ^ " Rules for the study of natural philosophy", Newton 1999, pp.&nbsp;794–796 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFNewton1999 (help), from the General Scholium, which follows Book 3, The System of the World.  
         ^ scientific method, Merriam-Webster Dictionary.  
         ^ 
           Wilson, Timothy D. (12 July 2012). "Stop bullying the 'soft' sciences". Los Angeles Times.  
         ^ 
           "Sir Francis Bacon – Quotationspage.com". Retrieved 8 July 2009.  
         ^ There is quite a good case for this exclusive specialization used by philosophers, in that it allows for in-depth study of logic-procedures and other abstractions which are not found elsewhere. However, this may lead to problems whenever the topic spills over into those excluded domains – e.&nbsp;g. when Kant (following Newton) dismissed Space and Time as axiomatically "transcendental" and "a priori" – a claim later disproved by Piaget's clinical studies. It also seems likely that the vexed problem of "infinite regress" can be largely (but not completely) solved by proper attention to how unconscious concepts are actually developed, both during infantile learning and as inherited "pseudo-transcendentals" inherited from the trial-and-error of previous generations. See also "Tacit knowledge". 
           
            Piaget, J., and B.Inhelder (1927/1969). The child's conception of time. Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul: London. 
            Piaget, J., and B. Inhelder (1948/1956). The child's conception of space. Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul: London.
             
         ^ a b c d "Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective". Haraway, Donna. Feminist Studies Vol. 14, No. 3. pp. 575–599. 1988.  
         ^ "Introduction: Development and the Anthropology of Modernity". Escobar, Arturo. Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World.  
         ^ Chapter 1. Haraway, Donna. Modest_Witness@Second_Millennium. FemaleMan© Meets_OncoMouse2. Feminism and Technoscience. 1997.  
         ^ 
           Braidotti, Rosi (2006). "Posthuman, All Too Human". Theory, Culture &amp; Society. 23 (7–8): 197–208. doi:10.1177/0263276406069232.  
         ^ Stanley Cavell, "Knowing and Acknowledging", Must We Mean What We Say? (Cambridge University Press, 2002), 238–266.  
         ^ "The Subject and Power". Foucault, Michel. Critical Inquiry Volume 9, No. 4. pp. 777–795. 1982  
         ^ 
           "Part Three, No. 1831". Catechism of the Catholic Church. Archived from the original on 4 May 2007. Retrieved 20 April 2007.  
         ^ "Seven Gifts of the Holy Spirit", An Episcopal Dictionary of the Church  
         ^ "The gifts of the Holy Spirit open us to divine inspirations", Catholic News Service, September 10, 2020  
         ^ 
           Denova, Rebecca (9 April 2021). "Gnosticism". World History Encyclopedia. Retrieved 6 February 2022.  
         ^ 
           "विद्या दान ही सबसे बडा दान&nbsp;: विहिप – Vishva Hindu Parishad – Official Website". vhp.org. Archived from the original on 20 August 2011.  
         ^ 
           Swami Krishnananda. "Chapter 7". The Philosophy of the Panchadasi. The Divine Life Society. Retrieved 5 July 2008.  
         ^ 
           "Alim". Lexico. Oxford. Retrieved 13 March 2021.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Knowledgeat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
       Knowledge at PhilPapers 
       
        "Knowledge". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). "The Value of Knowledge". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). "The Analysis of Knowledge". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). "Knowledge by Acquaintance vs. Description". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       Knowledge at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Links to related articles
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Human intelligence topics
                 
               
               
                Types
                
                  
                  
                   Collective 
                   Emotional 
                   Intellectual 
                   Linguistic 
                   Multiple 
                   Social 
                   Spatial&nbsp;(visuospatial)
                   
                 
               
               
                Abilities, traits,and constructs
                
                  
                  
                   Cognition 
                   Communication 
                   Creativity 
                   Fluid and crystallized intelligence 
                   g factor 
                   Intelligence quotient 
                   Knowledge 
                   Learning 
                   Memory 
                   Problem solving 
                   Reasoning 
                   Thought&nbsp;(abstraction) 
                   Understanding 
                   Visual processing
                   
                 
               
               
                Models and theories
                
                  
                  
                   Cattell–Horn–Carroll theory 
                   Fluid and crystallized intelligence 
                   Multiple-intelligences theory 
                   Three-stratum theory 
                   Triarchic theory 
                   PASS theory
                   
                 
               
               
                Areas of research
                
                  
                  
                   Evolution of human intelligence 
                   Heritability of IQ 
                   Psychometrics 
                   Intelligence and environment&nbsp;/ fertility&nbsp;/ height&nbsp;/ health&nbsp;/ longevity&nbsp;/ neuroscience&nbsp;/ personality&nbsp;/ race&nbsp;/ sex
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Outline of human intelligence&nbsp;/ thought
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Knowledge management
                 
               
               
                General topics
                
                  
                  
                   Chief knowledge officer 
                   Collective intelligence 
                   Intellectual capital 
                   Knowledge worker 
                   Personal knowledge management
                   
                 
               
               
                Electronic systems
                
                  
                  
                   Enterprise content management 
                   Knowledge management software
                   
                 
               
               
                Related
                
                  
                  
                   Community of practice 
                   Design rationale 
                   Knowledge
                   
                 
               
               
                Journals
                
                  
                  
                   Knowledge Management Research &amp; Practice
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Branches
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        Traditional
                        
                          
                          
                           Axiology 
                            
                             Aesthetics 
                             Ethics
                             
                           Epistemology 
                           Logic 
                           Metaphysics 
                            
                             Ontology
                            
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Philosophy of...
                        
                          
                          
                           Action 
                           Art 
                            
                             Design 
                             Music 
                             Film
                             
                           Color 
                           Cosmology 
                           Culture 
                           Education 
                           Environment 
                           Geography 
                           History 
                           Human nature 
                           Feminism 
                           Language 
                           Law 
                           Life 
                           Literature 
                           Logic 
                           Mathematics 
                           Medicine 
                            
                             Healthcare 
                             Psychiatry
                             
                           Mind 
                            
                             Pain 
                             Happiness 
                             Humor 
                             Psychology
                             
                           Perception 
                           Philosophy 
                           Religion 
                           Science 
                            
                             Physics 
                             Chemistry 
                             Biology
                             
                           Sexuality 
                           Social science 
                            
                             Business 
                             Economics 
                             Politics 
                             Society
                             
                           Space and time 
                           Sport 
                           Technology 
                            
                             Artificial intelligence 
                             Computer science 
                             Engineering 
                             Information
                             
                           War
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Schools of thought
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        By era
                        
                          
                          
                           Ancient 
                           Western 
                            
                             Medieval 
                             Renaissance 
                             Early modern 
                             Modern 
                             Contemporary
                            
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Ancient
                        
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            Chinese
                            
                              
                              
                              Agriculturalism 
                              Confucianism 
                              Legalism 
                              Logicians 
                              Mohism 
                              Chinese naturalism 
                              Neotaoism 
                              Taoism 
                              Yangism 
                              Chan
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Greco-Roman 
                            
                              
                              
                              Aristotelianism 
                              Atomism 
                              Cynicism 
                              Cyrenaics 
                              Eleatics 
                              Eretrian school 
                              Epicureanism 
                              Hermeneutics 
                              Ionian 
                              
                              Ephesian 
                              Milesian
                               
                              Megarian school 
                              Neoplatonism 
                              Peripatetic 
                              Platonism 
                              Pluralism 
                              Presocratic 
                              Pyrrhonism 
                              Pythagoreanism 
                              Neopythagoreanism 
                              Sophistic 
                              Stoicism
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Indian
                            
                              
                              
                              Hindu 
                              Samkhya 
                              Nyaya 
                              Vaisheshika 
                              Yoga 
                              Mīmāṃsā 
                              Ājīvika 
                              Ajñana 
                              Cārvāka 
                              Jain 
                              
                              Anekantavada 
                              Syādvāda
                               
                              Buddhist 
                              
                              Śūnyatā 
                              Madhyamaka 
                              Yogacara 
                              Sautrāntika 
                              Svatantrika
                              
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Persian
                            
                              
                              
                              Mazdakism 
                              Mithraism 
                              Zoroastrianism 
                              Zurvanism
                               
                             
                           
                          
                         
                         
                       
                       
                        Medieval
                        
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            European
                            
                              
                              
                              Christian 
                               Augustinianism 
                              Scholasticism 
                              Thomism 
                              Scotism 
                              Occamism 
                              Renaissance humanism
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            East Asian
                            
                              
                              
                              Korean Confucianism 
                              Edo neo-Confucianism 
                              Neo-Confucianism
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Indian
                            
                              
                              
                              Vedanta 
                              
                              Acintya bheda abheda 
                              Advaita 
                              Bhedabheda 
                              Dvaita 
                              Nimbarka Sampradaya 
                              Shuddhadvaita 
                              Vishishtadvaita
                               
                              Navya-Nyāya
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Islamic
                            
                              
                              
                              Averroism 
                              Avicennism 
                              Illuminationism 
                              ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                              Sufi
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Jewish
                            
                              
                              
                              Judeo-Islamic
                               
                             
                           
                          
                         
                         
                       
                       
                        Modern
                        
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            People
                            
                              
                              
                              Cartesianism 
                              Kantianism 
                              
                              Neo
                               
                              Kierkegaardianism 
                              Krausism 
                              Hegelianism 
                              Marxism 
                              Newtonianism 
                              Nietzscheanism 
                              Spinozism
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            0
                            
                              
                              
                              Anarchism 
                              Classical Realism 
                              Liberalism 
                              Collectivism 
                              Conservatism 
                              Determinism 
                              Dualism 
                              Empiricism 
                              Existentialism 
                              Foundationalism 
                              Historicism 
                              Holism 
                              Humanism 
                              
                              Anti-
                               
                              Idealism 
                              
                              Absolute 
                              British 
                              German 
                              Objective 
                              Subjective 
                              Transcendental
                               
                              Individualism 
                              Kokugaku 
                              Materialism 
                              Modernism 
                              Monism 
                              Naturalism 
                              Natural law 
                              Nihilism 
                              New Confucianism 
                              Neo-scholasticism 
                              Pragmatism 
                              Phenomenology 
                              Positivism 
                              Reductionism 
                              Rationalism 
                              Social contract 
                              Socialism 
                              Transcendentalism 
                              Utilitarianism
                               
                             
                           
                          
                         
                         
                       
                       
                        Contemporary
                        
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            Analytic
                            
                              
                              
                              Applied ethics 
                              Analytic feminism 
                              Analytical Marxism 
                              Communitarianism 
                              Consequentialism 
                              Critical rationalism 
                              Experimental philosophy 
                              Falsificationism 
                              Foundationalism&nbsp;/ Coherentism 
                              Internalism and externalism 
                              Logical positivism 
                              Legal positivism 
                              Normative ethics 
                              Meta-ethics 
                              Moral realism 
                              Quinean naturalism 
                              Ordinary language philosophy 
                              Postanalytic philosophy 
                              Quietism 
                              Rawlsian 
                              Reformed epistemology 
                              Systemics 
                              Scientism 
                              Scientific realism 
                              Scientific skepticism 
                              Transactionalism 
                              Contemporary utilitarianism 
                              Vienna Circle 
                              Wittgensteinian
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Continental
                            
                              
                              
                              Critical theory 
                              Deconstruction 
                              Existentialism 
                              Feminist 
                              Frankfurt School 
                              New Historicism 
                              Hermeneutics 
                              Neo-Marxism 
                              Phenomenology 
                              Posthumanism 
                              Postmodernism 
                              Post-structuralism 
                              Social constructionism 
                              Structuralism 
                              Western Marxism
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Other
                            
                              
                              
                              Kyoto School 
                              Objectivism 
                              Postcritique 
                              Russian cosmism 
                              more...
                               
                             
                           
                          
                         
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Positions
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        Aesthetics
                        
                          
                          
                           Formalism 
                           Institutionalism 
                           Aesthetic response
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Ethics
                        
                          
                          
                           Consequentialism 
                           Deontology 
                           Virtue
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Free will
                        
                          
                          
                           Compatibilism 
                           Determinism 
                            
                             Hard
                             
                           Incompatibilism 
                            
                             Hard
                             
                           Libertarianism
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Metaphysics
                        
                          
                          
                           Atomism 
                           Dualism 
                           Idealism 
                           Monism 
                           Naturalism 
                           Realism
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Epistemology
                        
                          
                          
                           Empiricism 
                           Fideism 
                           Naturalism 
                           Particularism 
                           Rationalism 
                           Skepticism 
                           Solipsism
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Mind
                        
                          
                          
                           Behaviorism 
                           Emergentism 
                           Eliminativism 
                           Epiphenomenalism 
                           Functionalism 
                           Objectivism 
                           Subjectivism
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Normativity
                        
                          
                          
                           Absolutism 
                           Particularism 
                           Relativism 
                           Nihilism 
                           Skepticism 
                           Universalism
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Ontology
                        
                          
                          
                           Action 
                           Event 
                           Process
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Reality
                        
                          
                          
                           Anti-realism 
                           Conceptualism 
                           Idealism 
                           Materialism 
                           Naturalism 
                           Nominalism 
                           Physicalism 
                           Realism
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      
                       
                        By region
                        Related lists
                        Miscellaneous
                       
                      
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        By region
                        
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            African
                            
                              
                              
                              Bantu 
                              Egyptian 
                              Ethiopian
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Eastern
                            
                              
                              
                              Chinese 
                              Indian 
                              Indonesian 
                              Japanese 
                              Korean 
                              Taiwanese 
                              Pakistani 
                              Vietnamese
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Middle Eastern
                            
                              
                              
                              Iranian 
                              Jewish 
                              Turkish
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Western
                            
                              
                              
                              American 
                              Australian 
                              British 
                              
                              Scottish
                               
                              Canada 
                              Czech 
                              Danish 
                              Dutch 
                              French 
                              German 
                              Greek 
                              Italian 
                              Maltese 
                              Polish 
                              Slovene 
                              Spanish
                               
                             
                           
                           
                            Miscellaneous
                            
                              
                              
                              Amerindian 
                              Aztec 
                              Yugoslav 
                              Romanian 
                              Russian
                               
                             
                           
                          
                         
                         
                       
                       
                        Lists
                        
                          
                          
                           Outline 
                           Index 
                           Years 
                           Problems 
                           Schools 
                           Glossary 
                           Philosophers 
                           Movements 
                           Publications
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Miscellaneous
                        
                          
                          
                           Natural law 
                           Sage 
                           Theoretical philosophy&nbsp;/ Practical philosophy 
                           Women in philosophy
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Portal 
                    Category
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Epistemology
                 
               
               
                Epistemologists
                
                  
                  
                   Thomas Aquinas 
                   Augustine of Hippo 
                   William Alston 
                   Robert Audi 
                   A. J. Ayer 
                   George Berkeley 
                   Laurence BonJour 
                   Gilles Deleuze 
                   Keith DeRose 
                   René Descartes 
                   John Dewey 
                   Fred Dretske 
                   Edmund Gettier 
                   Alvin Goldman 
                   Nelson Goodman 
                   Paul Grice 
                   Anil Gupta 
                   Susan Haack 
                   David Hume 
                   Immanuel Kant 
                   Søren Kierkegaard 
                   Peter Klein 
                   Saul Kripke 
                   Hilary Kornblith 
                   David Lewis 
                   John Locke 
                   G. E. Moore 
                   John McDowell 
                   Robert Nozick 
                   Alvin Plantinga 
                   Plato 
                   Duncan Pritchard 
                   James Pryor 
                   Hilary Putnam 
                   W. V. O. Quine 
                   Thomas Reid 
                   Bertrand Russell 
                   Gilbert Ryle 
                   Wilfrid Sellars 
                   Susanna Siegel 
                   Ernest Sosa 
                   P. F. Strawson 
                   Baruch Spinoza 
                   Timothy Williamson 
                   Ludwig Wittgenstein 
                   Nicholas Wolterstorff 
                   Vienna Circle 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Theories
                
                  
                  
                   Coherentism 
                   Constructivism 
                   Contextualism 
                   Empiricism 
                   Evolutionary epistemology 
                   Fallibilism 
                   Feminist epistemology 
                   Fideism 
                   Foundationalism 
                   Holism 
                   Infinitism 
                   Innatism 
                   Naïve realism 
                   Naturalized epistemology 
                   Phenomenalism 
                   Positivism 
                   Rationalism 
                   Reductionism 
                   Reliabilism 
                   Representational realism 
                   Skepticism 
                   Transcendental idealism
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts
                
                  
                  
                   A priori knowledge 
                   A posteriori knowledge 
                   Analysis 
                   Analytic–synthetic distinction 
                   Belief 
                   Common sense 
                   Descriptive knowledge 
                   Exploratory thought 
                   Epistemic injustice 
                   Gettier problem 
                   Induction 
                   Internalism and externalism 
                   Justification 
                   Knowledge 
                   Objectivity 
                   Privileged access 
                   Problem of induction 
                   Problem of other minds 
                   Perception 
                   Procedural knowledge 
                   Proposition 
                   Regress argument 
                   Simplicity 
                   Speculative reason 
                   Truth 
                   more...
                   
                 
               
               
                Related articles
                
                  
                  
                   Outline of epistemology 
                   Faith and rationality 
                   Formal epistemology 
                   Metaepistemology 
                   Philosophy of perception 
                   Philosophy of science 
                   Social epistemology
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   Task Force 
                   Stubs 
                   Discussion
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Positivism
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Perspectives
                    
                      
                      
                       Antihumanism 
                       Empiricism 
                       Rationalism 
                       Scientism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Declinations
                    
                      
                      
                       Legal positivism 
                       Logical positivism&nbsp;/ analytic philosophy 
                       Positivist school 
                       Postpositivism 
                       Sociological positivism 
                       Machian positivism (empirio-criticism) 
                       Rankean historical positivism 
                       Polish positivism 
                       Russian Machism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Principal concepts
                    
                      
                      
                       Consilience 
                       Demarcation 
                       Evidence 
                       Induction 
                       Justification 
                       Pseudoscience 
                       Critique of metaphysics 
                       Unity of science 
                       Verificationism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Antitheses
                    
                      
                      
                       Antipositivism 
                       Confirmation holism 
                       Critical theory 
                       Falsifiability 
                       Geisteswissenschaft 
                       Hermeneutics 
                       Historicism 
                       Historism 
                       Human science 
                       Humanities 
                       Methodological dualism 
                       Problem of induction 
                       Reflectivism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Related paradigm shiftsin the history of science
                    
                      
                      
                       Non-Euclidean geometry (1830s) 
                       Uncertainty principle (1927)
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Related topics
                    
                      
                      
                       Behavioralism 
                        
                         Post-behavioralism
                         
                       Critical rationalism 
                       Criticism of science 
                       Epistemology 
                        
                         anarchism 
                         idealism 
                         nihilism 
                         pluralism 
                         realism
                         
                       Holism 
                       Instrumentalism 
                       Modernism 
                       Naturalism in literature 
                       Nomothetic–idiographic distinction 
                       Objectivity in science 
                       Operationalism 
                       Phenomenalism 
                       Philosophy of science 
                        
                         Deductive-nomological model 
                         Ramsey sentence 
                         Sense-data theory
                         
                       Qualitative research 
                       Relationship between religion and science 
                       Sociology 
                       Social science 
                        
                         Philosophy
                         
                       Structural functionalism 
                       Structuralism 
                       Structuration theory
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Positivist-related debate
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        Method
                        
                          
                          
                           Methodenstreit (1890s) 
                           Werturteilsstreit (1909–1959) 
                           Positivismusstreit (1960s) 
                           Fourth Great Debate in international relations (1980s) 
                           Science wars (1990s)
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Contributions
                        
                          
                          
                           The Course in Positive Philosophy (1830) 
                           A General View of Positivism (1848) 
                           Critical History of Philosophy (1869) 
                           Idealism and Positivism (1879–1884) 
                           The Analysis of Sensations (1886) 
                           The Logic of Modern Physics (1927) 
                           Language, Truth, and Logic (1936) 
                           The Two Cultures (1959) 
                           The Universe in a Nutshell (2001)
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Proponents
                        
                          
                          
                           Richard Avenarius 
                           A. J. Ayer 
                           Alexander Bogdanov 
                           Auguste Comte 
                           Eugen Dühring 
                           Émile Durkheim 
                           Ernst Laas 
                           Ernst Mach 
                           Berlin Circle 
                           Vienna Circle
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Criticism
                        
                          
                          
                           Materialism and Empirio-criticism (1909) 
                           History and Class Consciousness (1923) 
                           The Logic of Scientific Discovery (1934) 
                           The Poverty of Historicism (1936) 
                           World Hypotheses (1942) 
                           Two Dogmas of Empiricism (1951) 
                           Truth and Method (1960) 
                           The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962) 
                           Conjectures and Refutations (1963) 
                           One-Dimensional Man (1964) 
                           Knowledge and Human Interests (1968) 
                           The Poverty of Theory (1978) 
                           The Scientific Image (1980) 
                           The Rhetoric of Economics (1986)
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Critics
                        
                          
                          
                           Theodor W. Adorno 
                           Gaston Bachelard 
                           Mario Bunge 
                           Wilhelm Dilthey 
                           Paul Feyerabend 
                           Hans-Georg Gadamer 
                           Thomas Kuhn 
                           György Lukács 
                           Karl Popper 
                           Willard Van Orman Quine 
                           Max Weber
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Concepts in contention
                        
                          
                          
                           Knowledge 
                           Objectivity 
                           Phronesis 
                           Truth 
                           Verstehen
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                  Category
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Knowledge&amp;oldid=1070981813"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Knowledge
       Concepts in epistemology
       Intelligence
       Mental content
       Virtue
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Pages containing links to subscription-only content
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2019
       Harv and Sfn no-target errors
       Use dmy dates from May 2020
       Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from June 2020
       All articles needing additional references
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
       Articles with Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy links
       Articles containing German-language text
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Knowledge&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       الدارجة
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       ГӀалгӀай
       贛語
       한국어
       Hausa
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مازِرونی
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       Nāhuatl
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Patois
       Piemontèis
       Polski
       Português
       Qaraqalpaqsha
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Gagana Samoa
       संस्कृतम्
       ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taqbaylit
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       ᏣᎳᎩ
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vahcuengh
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       Xitsonga
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 07:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
