
 
  
   
  Vannevar Bush - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Vannevar Bush 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American electrical engineer and science administrator (1890–1974)
       
        
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Vannevar Bush
          
        
        
         
        
        
         
          
        
        
         Chairman of the Research and Development Board
        
        
         In officeSeptember 30, 1947&nbsp;– October 14, 1948
        
        
         President
         Harry S. Truman
        
        
         Preceded by
         Position established
        
        
         Succeeded by
         Karl Compton
        
        
         Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development
        
        
         In officeJune 28, 1941&nbsp;– December 31, 1947
        
        
         President
         Franklin D. RooseveltHarry S. Truman
        
        
         Preceded by
         Position established
        
        
         Succeeded by
         Position abolished
        
        
         Chairman of the National Defense Research Committee
        
        
         In officeJune 27, 1940&nbsp;– June 28, 1941
        
        
         President
         Franklin D. Roosevelt
        
        
         Preceded by
         Position established
        
        
         Succeeded by
         James B. Conant
        
        
         Chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics
        
        
         In officeOctober 19, 1939&nbsp;– June 28, 1941
        
        
         President
         Franklin D. Roosevelt
        
        
         Preceded by
         Joseph Ames
        
        
         Succeeded by
         Jerome Hunsaker
        
        
          
        
        
         Personal details
        
        
         Born
         (1890-03-11)March 11, 1890Everett, Massachusetts, U.S.
        
        
         Died
         June 28, 1974(1974-06-28) (aged&nbsp;84)Belmont, Massachusetts, U.S.
        
        
         Education
         Tufts University (BS, MS)Massachusetts Institute of Technology (DEng)
        
        
         Awards
         Edison Medal (1943)Hoover Medal (1946)Medal for Merit (1948)IRI Medal (1949)John Fritz Medal (1951)John J. Carty Award for the Advancement of Science (1953)National Medal of Science (1963)See below
        
        
         Signature
         
        
        
         
          
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Electrical engineering
        
        
         Institutions
         Tufts UniversityMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyCarnegie Institution of Washington
        
        
         Thesis
         Oscillating-current circuits; an extension of the theory of generalized angular velocities, with applications to the coupled circuit and the artificial transmission line&nbsp;(1916)
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Dugald C. JacksonArthur E. Kennelly
        
        
         Notable students
         Claude ShannonFrederick TermanCharles MannebackPerry O. Crawford Jr.
        
        
         Influenced
         Douglas EngelbartTed Nelson
        
        
          
        
        
          
        
        
         
          
        
       
       
      Vannevar Bush (/væˈniːvɑːr/ van-NEE-var; March 11, 1890 – June 28, 1974) was an American engineer, inventor and science administrator, who during World War&nbsp;II headed the U.S. Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD), through which almost all wartime military R&amp;D was carried out, including important developments in radar and the initiation and early administration of the Manhattan Project. He emphasized the importance of scientific research to national security and economic well-being, and was chiefly responsible for the movement that led to the creation of the National Science Foundation. 
      Bush joined the Department of Electrical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1919, and founded the company that became the Raytheon Company in 1922. Bush became vice president of MIT and dean of the MIT School of Engineering in 1932, and president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington in 1938. 
      During his career, Bush patented a string of his own inventions. He is known particularly for his engineering work on analog computers, and for the memex. Starting in 1927, Bush constructed a differential analyzer, an analog computer with some digital components that could solve differential equations with as many as 18&nbsp;independent variables. An offshoot of the work at MIT by Bush and others was the beginning of digital circuit design theory. The memex, which he began developing in the 1930s (heavily influenced by Emanuel Goldberg's "Statistical Machine" from 1928) was a hypothetical adjustable microfilm viewer with a structure analogous to that of hypertext. The memex and Bush's 1945 essay "As We May Think" influenced generations of computer scientists, who drew inspiration from his vision of the future. 
      Bush was appointed to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) in 1938, and soon became its chairman. As chairman of the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC), and later director of OSRD, Bush coordinated the activities of some six thousand leading American scientists in the application of science to warfare. Bush was a well-known policymaker and public intellectual during World War&nbsp;II, when he was in effect the first presidential science advisor. As head of NDRC and OSRD, he initiated the Manhattan Project, and ensured that it received top priority from the highest levels of government. In Science, The Endless Frontier, his 1945 report to the President of the United States, Bush called for an expansion of government support for science, and he pressed for the creation of the National Science Foundation.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life and education 
        2 Early engineering activities 
        3 World War II 
          
          3.1 Carnegie Institution for Science 
          3.2 National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics 
          3.3 National Defense Research Committee 
          3.4 Office of Scientific Research and Development 
            
            3.4.1 Proximity fuze 
            3.4.2 Manhattan Project 
             
           
        4 Post-war years 
          
          4.1 Memex concept 
          4.2 National Science Foundation 
          4.3 Panels and boards 
           
        5 Final years and death 
        6 Awards and honors 
        7 See also 
        8 Bibliography 
        9 Notes 
        10 References 
        11 External links 
        
       
      Early life and education 
      Vannevar Bush was born in Everett, Massachusetts, on March 11, 1890, the third child and only son of Perry Bush, the local Universalist pastor, and his wife Emma Linwood (née Paine). He had two older sisters, Edith and Reba. He was named after John Vannevar, an old friend of the family who had attended Tufts College with Perry. The family moved to Chelsea, Massachusetts, in 1892, and Bush graduated from Chelsea High School in 1909. 
      He then attended Tufts College, like his father before him. A popular student, he was vice president of his sophomore class, and president of his junior class. During his senior year, he managed the football team. He became a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, and dated Phoebe Clara Davis, who also came from Chelsea. Tufts allowed students to gain a master's degree in four years simultaneously with a bachelor's degree. For his master's thesis, Bush invented and patented a "profile tracer". This was a mapping device for assisting surveyors that looked like a lawn mower. It had two bicycle wheels, and a pen that plotted the terrain over which it traveled. It was the first of a string of inventions. On graduation in 1913 he received both Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees. 
      After graduation, Bush worked at General Electric (GE) in Schenectady, New York, for $14 a week. As a "test man", his job was to assess equipment to ensure that it was safe. He transferred to GE's plant in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, to work on high voltage transformers, but after a fire broke out at the plant, Bush and the other test men were suspended. He returned to Tufts in October 1914 to teach mathematics, and spent the 1915 summer break working at the Brooklyn Navy Yard as an electrical inspector. Bush was awarded a $1,500&nbsp;scholarship to study at Clark University as a doctoral student of Arthur Gordon Webster, but Webster wanted Bush to study acoustics, a popular field at the time that led many to computer science. Bush preferred to quit rather than study a subject that did not interest him. 
      Bush subsequently enrolled in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) electrical engineering program. Spurred by the need for enough financial security to marry, he submitted his thesis, entitled Oscillating-Current Circuits: An Extension of the Theory of Generalized Angular Velocities, with Applications to the Coupled Circuit and the Artificial Transmission Line, in April 1916. His adviser, Arthur Edwin Kennelly, demanded more work from him, but Bush refused, and Kennelly was overruled by the department chairman. Bush received his doctorate in engineering jointly from MIT and Harvard University. He married Phoebe in August 1916. They had two sons: Richard Davis Bush and John Hathaway Bush.  
      Early engineering activities 
      Bush accepted a job with Tufts, where he became involved with the American Radio and Research Corporation (AMRAD), which began broadcasting music from the campus on March 8, 1916. The station owner, Harold Power, hired him to run the company's laboratory, at a salary greater than that which Bush drew from Tufts. In 1917, following the United States' entry into World War I, he went to work with the National Research Council. He attempted to develop a means of detecting submarines by measuring the disturbance in the Earth's magnetic field. His device worked as designed, but only from a wooden ship; attempts to get it to work on a metal ship such as a destroyer failed.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Differential analyzer in use at the Cambridge University Mathematics Laboratory, 1938.
        
       
       
      Bush left Tufts in 1919, although he remained employed by AMRAD, and joined the Department of Electrical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he worked under Dugald C. Jackson. In 1922, he collaborated with fellow MIT professor William H. Timbie on Principles of Electrical Engineering, an introductory textbook. AMRAD's lucrative contracts from World War&nbsp;I had been cancelled, and Bush attempted to reverse the company's fortunes by developing a thermostatic switch invented by Al Spencer, an AMRAD technician, on his own time. AMRAD's management was not interested in the device, but had no objection to its sale. Bush found backing from Laurence K. Marshall and Richard S. Aldrich to create the Spencer Thermostat Company, which hired Bush as a consultant. The new company soon had revenues in excess of a million dollars. It merged with General Plate Company to form Metals &amp; Controls Corporation in 1931, and with Texas Instruments in 1959. Texas Instruments sold it to Bain Capital in 2006, and it became a separate company again as Sensata Technologies in 2010. 
      In 1924, Bush and Marshall teamed up with physicist Charles G. Smith, who had invented a voltage-regulator tube called the S-tube. The device enabled radios, which had previously required two different types of batteries, to operate from mains power. Marshall had raised $25,000 to set up the American Appliance Company on July 7, 1922, to build silent refrigerators, with Bush and Smith among its five directors, but changed course and renamed it the Raytheon Company, to make and market the S-tube. The venture made Bush wealthy, and Raytheon ultimately became a large electronics company and defense contractor. 
      Starting in 1927, Bush constructed a differential analyzer, an analog computer that could solve differential equations with as many as 18 independent variables. This invention arose from previous work performed by Herbert R. Stewart, one of Bush's masters students, who at Bush's suggestion created the integraph, a device for solving first-order differential equations, in 1925. Another student, Harold Hazen, proposed extending the device to handle second-order differential equations. Bush immediately realized the potential of such an invention, for these were much more difficult to solve, but also quite common in physics. Under Bush's supervision, Hazen was able to construct the differential analyzer, a table-like array of shafts and pens that mechanically simulated and plotted the desired equation. Unlike earlier designs that were purely mechanical, the differential analyzer had both electrical and mechanical components. Among the engineers who made use of the differential analyzer was General Electric's Edith Clarke, who used it to solve problems relating to electric power transmission. For developing the differential analyzer, Bush was awarded the Franklin Institute's Louis E. Levy Medal in 1928. 
      Bush taught boolean algebra, circuit theory, and operational calculus according to the methods of Oliver Heaviside while Samuel Wesley Stratton was President of MIT. When Harold Jeffreys in Cambridge, England, offered his mathematical treatment in Operational Methods in Mathematical Physics (1927), Bush responded with his seminal textbook Operational Circuit Analysis (1929) for instructing electrical engineering students. In the preface he wrote:  
      
      
       I write as an engineer and do not pretend to be a mathematician. I lean for support, and expect always to lean, upon the mathematician, just as I must lean upon the chemist, the physician, or the lawyer. Norbert Wiener has patiently guided me around many a mathematical pitfall ... he has written an appendix to this text on certain mathematical points. I did not know an engineer and a mathematician could have such good times together. I only wish that I could get the real vital grasp of mathematics that he has of the basic principles of physics.
       
      Parry Moon and Stratton were acknowledged, as was M.S. Vallarta who "wrote the first set of class notes which I used." 
      An offshoot of the work at MIT was the beginning of digital circuit design theory by one of Bush's graduate students, Claude Shannon. Working on the analytical engine, Shannon described the application of Boolean algebra to electronic circuits in his landmark master's thesis, A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits. In 1935, Bush was approached by OP-20-G, which was searching for an electronic device to aid in codebreaking. Bush was paid a $10,000 fee to design the Rapid Analytical Machine (RAM). The project went over budget and was not delivered until 1938, when it was found to be unreliable in service. Nonetheless, it was an important step toward creating such a device. 
      The reform of MIT's administration began in 1930, with the appointment of Karl T. Compton as president. Bush and Compton soon clashed over the issue of limiting the amount of outside consultancy by professors, a battle Bush quickly lost, but the two men soon built a solid professional relationship. Compton appointed Bush to the newly created post of vice president in 1932. That year Bush also became the dean of the MIT School of Engineering. The two positions came with a salary of $12,000 plus $6,000 for expenses per annum. 
      The companies Bush helped to found and the technologies he brought to the market made him financially secure, so he was able to pursue academic and scientific studies that he felt made the world better in the years before and after World War II.  
      World War II 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bush attending a meeting at the University of California, Berkeley in 1940. From left to right: Ernest O. Lawrence, Arthur H. Compton, Bush, James B. Conant, Karl T. Compton, and Alfred L. Loomis
        
       
       
      Carnegie Institution for Science 
      In May 1938, Bush accepted a prestigious appointment as president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington (CIW), which had been founded in Washington, D.C. Also known as the Carnegie Institution for Science, it had an endowment of $33&nbsp;million, and annually spent $1.5&nbsp;million in research, most of which was carried out at its eight major laboratories. Bush became its president on January 1, 1939, with a salary of $25,000. He was now able to influence research policy in the United States at the highest level, and could informally advise the government on scientific matters. Bush soon discovered that the CIW had serious financial problems, and he had to ask the Carnegie Corporation for additional funding. 
      Bush clashed over leadership of the institute with Cameron Forbes, CIW's chairman of the board, and with his predecessor, John Merriam, who continued to offer unwanted advice. A major embarrassment to them all was Harry H. Laughlin, the head of the Eugenics Record Office, whose activities Merriam had attempted to curtail without success. Bush made it a priority to remove him, regarding him as a scientific fraud, and one of his first acts was to ask for a review of Laughlin's work. In June 1938, Bush asked Laughlin to retire, offering him an annuity, which Laughlin reluctantly accepted. The Eugenics Record Office was renamed the Genetics Record Office, its funding was drastically cut, and it was closed completely in 1944. Senator Robert Reynolds attempted to get Laughlin reinstated, but Bush informed the trustees that an inquiry into Laughlin would "show him to be physically incapable of directing an office, and an investigation of his scientific standing would be equally conclusive." 
      Bush wanted the institute to concentrate on hard science. He gutted Carnegie's archeology program, setting the field back many years in the United States. He saw little value in the humanities and social sciences, and slashed funding for Isis, a journal dedicated to the history of science and technology and its cultural influence. Bush later explained that "I have a great reservation about these studies where somebody goes out and interviews a bunch of people and reads a lot of stuff and writes a book and puts it on a shelf and nobody ever reads it."  
      National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics 
      On August 23, 1938, Bush was appointed to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), the predecessor of NASA. Its chairman Joseph Sweetman Ames became ill, and Bush, as vice chairman, soon had to act in his place. In December 1938, NACA asked for $11&nbsp;million to establish a new aeronautical research laboratory in Sunnyvale, California, to supplement the existing Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory. The California location was chosen for its proximity to some of the largest aviation corporations. This decision was supported by the chief of the United States Army Air Corps, Major General Henry H. Arnold, and by the head of the navy's Bureau of Aeronautics, Rear Admiral Arthur B. Cook, who between them were planning to spend $225&nbsp;million on new aircraft in the year ahead. However, Congress was not convinced of its value, and Bush had to appear before the Senate Appropriations Committee on April 5, 1939. It was a frustrating experience for Bush, since he had never appeared before Congress before, and the senators were not swayed by his arguments. Further lobbying was required before funding for the new center, now known as the Ames Research Center, was finally approved. By this time, war had broken out in Europe, and the inferiority of American aircraft engines was apparent, in particular the Allison V-1710 which performed poorly at high altitudes and had to be removed from the P-51 Mustang in favor of the British Rolls-Royce Merlin engine. The NACA asked for funding to build a third center in Ohio, which became the Glenn Research Center. Following Ames's retirement in October 1939, Bush became chairman of the NACA, with George J. Mead as his deputy. Bush remained a member of the NACA until November 1948.  
      National Defense Research Committee 
      During World War&nbsp;I, Bush had become aware of poor cooperation between civilian scientists and the military. Concerned about the lack of coordination in scientific research and the requirements of defense mobilization, Bush proposed the creation of a general directive agency in the federal government, which he discussed with his colleagues. He had the secretary of NACA prepare a draft of the proposed National Defense Research Committee (NDRC) to be presented to Congress, but after the Germans invaded France in May 1940, Bush decided speed was important and approached President Franklin D. Roosevelt directly. Through the President's uncle, Frederic Delano, Bush managed to set up a meeting with Roosevelt on June 12, 1940, to which he brought a single sheet of paper describing the agency. Roosevelt approved the proposal in 15&nbsp;minutes, writing "OK – FDR" on the sheet. 
      With Bush as chairman, the NDRC was functioning even before the agency was officially established by order of the Council of National Defense on June 27, 1940. The organization operated financially on a hand-to-mouth basis with monetary support from the president's emergency fund. Bush appointed four leading scientists to the NDRC: Karl Taylor Compton (president of MIT), James B. Conant (president of Harvard University), Frank B. Jewett (president of the National Academy of Sciences and chairman of the Board of Directors of Bell Laboratories), and Richard C. Tolman (dean of the graduate school at Caltech); Rear Admiral Harold G. Bowen, Sr. and Brigadier General George V. Strong represented the military. The civilians already knew each other well, which allowed the organization to begin functioning immediately. The NDRC established itself in the administration building at the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Each member of the committee was assigned an area of responsibility, while Bush handled coordination. A small number of projects reported to him directly, such as the S-1 Section. Compton's deputy, Alfred Loomis, said that "of the men whose death in the Summer of 1940 would have been the greatest calamity for America, the President is first, and Dr.&nbsp;Bush would be second or third." 
      Bush was fond of saying that "if he made any important contribution to the war effort at all, it would be to get the Army and Navy to tell each other what they were doing." He established a cordial relationship with Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, and Stimson's assistant, Harvey H. Bundy, who found Bush "impatient" and "vain", but said he was "one of the most important, able men I ever knew". Bush's relationship with the navy was more turbulent. Bowen, the director of the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL), saw the NDRC as a bureaucratic rival, and recommended abolishing it. A series of bureaucratic battles ended with the NRL placed under the Bureau of Ships, and Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox placing an unsatisfactory fitness report in Bowen's personnel file. After the war, Bowen would again try to create a rival to the NDRC inside the navy. 
      On August 31, 1940, Bush met with Henry Tizard, and arranged a series of meetings between the NDRC and the Tizard Mission, a British scientific delegation. At a meeting On September 19, 1940, the Americans described Loomis and Compton's microwave research. They had an experimental 10&nbsp;cm wavelength short wave radar, but admitted that it did not have enough power and that they were at a dead end. Taffy Bowen and John Cockcroft of the Tizard Mission then produced a cavity magnetron, a device more advanced than anything the Americans had seen, with a power output of around 10&nbsp;kW at 10&nbsp;cm, enough to spot the periscope of a surfaced submarine at night from an aircraft. To exploit the invention, Bush decided to create a special laboratory. The NDRC allocated the new laboratory a budget of $455,000 for its first year. Loomis suggested that the lab should be run by the Carnegie Institution, but Bush convinced him that it would best be run by MIT. The Radiation Laboratory, as it came to be known, tested its airborne radar from an Army B-18 on March 27, 1941. By mid-1941, it had developed SCR-584 radar, a mobile radar fire control system for antiaircraft guns. 
      In September 1940, Norbert Wiener approached Bush with a proposal to build a digital computer. Bush declined to provide NDRC funding for it on the grounds that he did not believe that it could be completed before the end of the war. The supporters of digital computers were disappointed at the decision, which they attributed to a preference for outmoded analog technology. In June 1943, the Army provided $500,000 to build the computer, which became ENIAC, the first general-purpose electronic computer. Having delayed its funding, Bush's prediction proved correct as ENIAC was not completed until December 1945, after the war had ended. His critics saw his attitude as a failure of vision.  
      Office of Scientific Research and Development 
      On June 28, 1941, Roosevelt established the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD) with the signing of Executive Order&nbsp;8807. Bush became director of the OSRD while Conant succeeded him as chairman of the NDRC, which was subsumed into the OSRD. The OSRD was on a firmer financial footing than the NDRC since it received funding from Congress, and had the resources and the authority to develop weapons and technologies with or without the military. Furthermore, the OSRD had a broader mandate than the NDRC, moving into additional areas such as medical research and the mass production of penicillin and sulfa drugs. The organization grew to 850&nbsp;full-time employees, and produced between 30,000 and 35,000 reports. The OSRD was involved in some 2,500 contracts, worth in excess of $536 million. 
      Bush's method of management at the OSRD was to direct overall policy, while delegating supervision of divisions to qualified colleagues and letting them do their jobs without interference. He attempted to interpret the mandate of the OSRD as narrowly as possible to avoid overtaxing his office and to prevent duplicating the efforts of other agencies. Bush would often ask: "Will it help to win a war; this war?" Other challenges involved obtaining adequate funds from the president and Congress and determining apportionment of research among government, academic, and industrial facilities. His most difficult problems, and also greatest successes, were keeping the confidence of the military, which distrusted the ability of civilians to observe security regulations and devise practical solutions, and opposing conscription of young scientists into the armed forces. This became especially difficult as the army's manpower crisis really began to bite in 1944. In all, the OSRD requested deferments for some 9,725&nbsp;employees of OSRD contractors, of which all but 63 were granted. In his obituary, The New York Times described Bush as "a master craftsman at steering around obstacles, whether they were technical or political or bull-headed generals and admirals."  
      Proximity fuze 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Cut away diagram of the proximity fuze Mark 53
        
       
       
      In August 1940, the NDRC began work on a proximity fuze, a fuze inside an artillery shell that would explode when it came close to its target. A radar set, along with the batteries to power it, was miniaturized to fit inside a shell, and its glass vacuum tubes designed to withstand the 20,000&nbsp;g-force of being fired from a gun and 500 rotations per second in flight. Unlike normal radar, the proximity fuze sent out a continuous signal rather than short pulses. The NDRC created a special Section&nbsp;T chaired by Merle Tuve of the CIW, with Commander William S. Parsons as special assistant to Bush and liaison between the NDRC and the Navy's Bureau of Ordnance (BuOrd). One of CIW staff members that Tuve recruited to Section&nbsp;T in 1940 was James Van Allen. In April 1942, Bush placed Section&nbsp;T directly under the OSRD, and Parsons in charge. The research effort remained under Tuve but moved to the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory (APL), where Parsons was BuOrd's representative. In August 1942, a live firing test was conducted with the newly commissioned cruiser USS&nbsp;Cleveland; three pilotless drones were shot down in succession. 
      To preserve the secret of the proximity fuze, its use was initially permitted only over water, where a dud round could not fall into enemy hands. In late 1943, the Army obtained permission to use the weapon over land. The proximity fuze proved particularly effective against the V-1 flying bomb over England, and later Antwerp, in 1944. A version was also developed for use with howitzers against ground targets. Bush met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff in October 1944 to press for its use, arguing that the Germans would be unable to copy and produce it before the war was over. Eventually, the Joint Chiefs agreed to allow its employment from December 25. In response to the German Ardennes Offensive on December 16, 1944, the immediate use of the proximity fuze was authorized, and it went into action with deadly effect. By the end of 1944, proximity fuzes were coming off the production lines at the rate of 40,000&nbsp;per day. "If one looks at the proximity fuze program as a whole," historian James Phinney Baxter III wrote, "the magnitude and complexity of the effort rank it among the three or four most extraordinary scientific achievements of the war." 
      The German V-1 flying bomb demonstrated a serious omission in OSRD's portfolio: guided missiles. While the OSRD had some success developing unguided rockets, it had nothing comparable to the V-1, the V-2 or the Henschel Hs 293 air-to-ship gliding guided bomb. Although the United States trailed the Germans and Japanese in several areas, this represented an entire field that had been left to the enemy. Bush did not seek the advice of Dr. Robert H. Goddard. Goddard would come to be regarded as America's pioneer of rocketry, but many contemporaries regarded him as a crank. Before the war, Bush had gone on the record as saying, "I don't understand how a serious scientist or engineer can play around with rockets", but in May 1944, he was forced to travel to London to warn General Dwight Eisenhower of the danger posed by the V-1 and V-2. Bush could only recommend that the launch sites be bombed, which was done.  
      Manhattan Project 
      Bush played a critical role in persuading the United States government to undertake a crash program to create an atomic bomb. When the NDRC was formed, the Committee on Uranium was placed under it, reporting directly to Bush as the Uranium Committee. Bush reorganized the committee, strengthening its scientific component by adding Tuve, George B. Pegram, Jesse W. Beams, Ross Gunn and Harold Urey. When the OSRD was formed in June 1941, the Uranium Committee was again placed directly under Bush. For security reasons, its name was changed to the Section&nbsp;S-1.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Left to right: Vannevar Bush, James B. Conant, Major General Leslie Groves and Colonel Franklin Matthias at the Hanford Site in July 1945
        
       
       
      Bush met with Roosevelt and Vice President Henry A. Wallace on October 9, 1941, to discuss the project. He briefed Roosevelt on Tube Alloys, the British atomic bomb project and its Maud Committee, which had concluded that an atomic bomb was feasible, and on the German nuclear energy project, about which little was known. Roosevelt approved and expedited the atomic program. To control it, he created a Top Policy Group consisting of himself—although he never attended a meeting—Wallace, Bush, Conant, Stimson and the Chief of Staff of the Army, General George Marshall. On Bush's advice, Roosevelt chose the army to run the project rather than the navy, although the navy had shown far more interest in the field, and was already conducting research into atomic energy for powering ships. Bush's negative experiences with the Navy had convinced him that it would not listen to his advice, and could not handle large-scale construction projects. 
      In March 1942, Bush sent a report to Roosevelt outlining work by Robert Oppenheimer on the nuclear cross section of uranium-235. Oppenheimer's calculations, which Bush had George Kistiakowsky check, estimated that the critical mass of a sphere of Uranium-235 was in the range of 2.5 to 5&nbsp;kilograms, with a destructive power of around 2,000&nbsp;tons of TNT. Moreover, it appeared that plutonium might be even more fissile. After conferring with Brigadier General Lucius D. Clay about the construction requirements, Bush drew up a submission for $85&nbsp;million in fiscal year 1943 for four pilot plants, which he forwarded to Roosevelt on June 17, 1942. With the Army on board, Bush moved to streamline oversight of the project by the OSRD, replacing the Section&nbsp;S-1 with a new S-1 Executive Committee. 
      Bush soon became dissatisfied with the dilatory way the project was run, with its indecisiveness over the selection of sites for the pilot plants. He was particularly disturbed at the allocation of an AA-3 priority, which would delay completion of the pilot plants by three months. Bush complained about these problems to Bundy and Under Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson. Major General Brehon B. Somervell, the commander of the army's Services of Supply, appointed Brigadier General Leslie R. Groves as project director in September. Within days of taking over, Groves approved the proposed site at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and obtained a AAA priority. At a meeting in Stimson's office on September 23 attended by Bundy, Bush, Conant, Groves, Marshall Somervell and Stimson, Bush put forward his proposal for steering the project by a small committee answerable to the Top Policy Group. The meeting agreed with Bush, and created a Military Policy Committee chaired by him, with Somervell's chief of staff, Brigadier General Wilhelm D. Styer, representing the army, and Rear Admiral William R. Purnell representing the navy. 
      At the meeting with Roosevelt on October 9, 1941, Bush advocated cooperating with the United Kingdom, and he began corresponding with his British counterpart, Sir&nbsp;John Anderson. But by October 1942, Conant and Bush agreed that a joint project would pose security risks and be more complicated to manage. Roosevelt approved a Military Policy Committee recommendation stating that information given to the British should be limited to technologies that they were actively working on and should not extend to post-war developments. In July 1943, on a visit to London to learn about British progress on antisubmarine technology, Bush, Stimson, and Bundy met with Anderson, Lord Cherwell, and Winston Churchill at 10 Downing Street. At the meeting, Churchill forcefully pressed for a renewal of interchange, while Bush defended current policy. Only when he returned to Washington did he discover that Roosevelt had agreed with the British. The Quebec Agreement merged the two atomic bomb projects, creating the Combined Policy Committee with Stimson, Bush and Conant as United States representatives. 
      Bush appeared on the cover of Time magazine on April 3, 1944. He toured the Western Front in October 1944, and spoke to ordnance officers, but no senior commander would meet with him. He was able to meet with Samuel Goudsmit and other members of the Alsos Mission, who assured him that there was no danger from the German project; he conveyed this assessment to Lieutenant General Bedell Smith. In May 1945, Bush became part of the Interim Committee formed to advise the new president, Harry S. Truman, on nuclear weapons. It advised that the atomic bomb should be used against an industrial target in Japan as soon as possible and without warning. Bush was present at the Alamogordo Bombing and Gunnery Range on July 16, 1945, for the Trinity nuclear test, the first detonation of an atomic bomb. Afterwards, he took his hat off to Oppenheimer in tribute. 
      Before the end of the Second World War, Bush and Conant had foreseen and sought to avoid a possible nuclear arms race. Bush proposed international scientific openness and information sharing as a method of self-regulation for the scientific community, to prevent any one political group gaining a scientific advantage. Before nuclear research became public knowledge, Bush used the development of biological weapons as a model for the discussion of similar issues, an "opening wedge". He was less successful in promoting his ideas in peacetime with President Harry Truman, than he had been under wartime conditions with Roosevelt. 
      In "As We May Think", an essay published by the Atlantic Monthly in July 1945, Bush wrote: "This has not been a scientist's war; it has been a war in which all have had a part. The scientists, burying their old professional competition in the demand of a common cause, have shared greatly and learned much. It has been exhilarating to work in effective partnership."  
      Post-war years 
      Memex concept 
      Bush introduced the concept of the memex during the 1930s, which he imagined as a form of memory augmentation involving a microfilm-based "device in which an individual stores all his books, records, and communications, and which is mechanized so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility. It is an enlarged intimate supplement to his memory." He wanted the memex to emulate the way the brain links data by association rather than by indexes and traditional, hierarchical storage paradigms, and be easily accessed as "a future device for individual use ... a sort of mechanized private file and library" in the shape of a desk. The memex was also intended as a tool to study the brain itself.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bush conceived the encyclopedia of the future as having a mesh of associative trails running through it, akin to hyperlinks, stored in a memex system.
        
       
       
      After thinking about the potential of augmented memory for several years, Bush set out his thoughts at length in "As We May Think", predicting that "wholly new forms of encyclopedias will appear, ready made with a mesh of associative trails running through them, ready to be dropped into the memex and there amplified". "As We May Think" was published in the July 1945 issue of The Atlantic. A few months later, Life magazine published a condensed version of "As We May Think", accompanied by several illustrations showing the possible appearance of a memex machine and its companion devices. 
      Shortly after "As We May Think" was originally published, Douglas Engelbart read it, and with Bush's visions in mind, commenced work that would later lead to the invention of the mouse. Ted Nelson, who coined the terms "hypertext" and "hypermedia", was also greatly influenced by Bush's essay. 
      "As We May Think" has turned out to be a visionary and influential essay. In their introduction to a paper discussing information literacy as a discipline, Bill Johnston and Sheila Webber wrote in 2005 that:  
      
      
       Bush's paper might be regarded as describing a microcosm of the information society, with the boundaries tightly drawn by the interests and experiences of a major scientist of the time, rather than the more open knowledge spaces of the 21st&nbsp;century. Bush provides a core vision of the importance of information to industrial / scientific society, using the image of an "information explosion" arising from the unprecedented demands on scientific production and technological application of World War&nbsp;II. He outlines a version of information science as a key discipline within the practice of scientific and technical knowledge domains. His view encompasses the problems of information overload and the need to devise efficient mechanisms to control and channel information for use. 
       
      Bush was concerned that information overload might inhibit the research efforts of scientists. Looking to the future, he predicted a time when "there is a growing mountain of research. But there is increased evidence that we are being bogged down today as specialization extends. The investigator is staggered by the findings and conclusions of thousands of other workers."  
      National Science Foundation 
      The OSRD continued to function actively until some time after the end of hostilities, but by 1946–1947 it had been reduced to a minimal staff charged with finishing work remaining from the war period; Bush was calling for its closure even before the war had ended. During the war, the OSRD had issued contracts as it had seen fit, with just eight organizations accounting for half of its spending. MIT was the largest to receive funds, with its obvious ties to Bush and his close associates. Efforts to obtain legislation exempting the OSRD from the usual government conflict of interest regulations failed, leaving Bush and other OSRD principals open to prosecution. Bush therefore pressed for OSRD to be wound up as soon as possible. 
      With its dissolution, Bush and others had hoped that an equivalent peacetime government research and development agency would replace the OSRD. Bush felt that basic research was important to national survival for both military and commercial reasons, requiring continued government support for science and technology; technical superiority could be a deterrent to future enemy aggression. In Science, The Endless Frontier, a July 1945 report to the president, Bush maintained that basic research was "the pacemaker of technological progress". "New products and new processes do not appear full-grown," Bush wrote in the report. "They are founded on new principles and new conceptions, which in turn are painstakingly developed by research in the purest realms of science!" In Bush's view, the "purest realms" were the physical and medical sciences; he did not propose funding the social sciences. In Science, The Endless Frontier, science historian Daniel Kevles later wrote, Bush "insisted upon the principle of Federal patronage for the advancement of knowledge in the United States, a departure that came to govern Federal science policy after World War&nbsp;II."  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bush (left) with Harry S. Truman (center) and James B. Conant (right)
        
       
       
      In July 1945, the Kilgore bill was introduced in Congress, proposing the appointment and removal of a single science administrator by the president, with emphasis on applied research, and a patent clause favoring a government monopoly. In contrast, the competing Magnuson bill was similar to Bush's proposal to vest control in a panel of top scientists and civilian administrators with the executive director appointed by them. The Magnuson bill emphasized basic research and protected private patent rights. A compromise Kilgore–Magnuson bill of February 1946 passed the Senate but expired in the House because Bush favored a competing bill that was a virtual duplicate of Magnuson's original bill. A Senate bill was introduced in February 1947 to create the National Science Foundation (NSF) to replace the OSRD. This bill favored most of the features advocated by Bush, including the controversial administration by an autonomous scientific board. The bill passed the Senate and the House, but was pocket vetoed by Truman on August 6, on the grounds that the administrative officers were not properly responsible to either the president or Congress. The OSRD was abolished without a successor organization on December 31, 1947. 
      Without a National Science Foundation, the military stepped in, with the Office of Naval Research (ONR) filling the gap. The war had accustomed many scientists to working without the budgetary constraints imposed by pre-war universities. Bush helped create the Joint Research and Development Board (JRDB) of the Army and Navy, of which he was chairman. With passage of the National Security Act on July 26, 1947, the JRDB became the Research and Development Board (RDB). Its role was to promote research through the military until a bill creating the National Science Foundation finally became law. By 1953, the Department of Defense was spending $1.6&nbsp;billion a year on research; physicists were spending 70&nbsp;percent of their time on defense related research, and 98&nbsp;percent of the money spent on physics came from either the Department of Defense or the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), which took over from the Manhattan Project on January 1, 1947. Legislation to create the National Science Foundation finally passed through Congress and was signed into law by Truman in 1950. 
      The authority that Bush had as chairman of the RDB was much different from the power and influence he enjoyed as director of OSRD and would have enjoyed in the agency he had hoped would be independent of the Executive branch and Congress. He was never happy with the position and resigned as chairman of the RDB after a year, but remained on the oversight committee. He continued to be skeptical about rockets and missiles, writing in his 1949 book, Modern Arms and Free Men, that intercontinental ballistic missiles would not be technically feasible "for a long time to come ... if ever".  
      Panels and boards 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         From left to right in a November 1969 photo, Dr. Glenn Seaborg, President Richard Nixon, and the three awardees of the Atomic Pioneers Award: Dr. Vannevar Bush, Dr. James B. Conant, and Gen. Leslie Groves.
        
       
       
      With Truman as president, men like John R. Steelman, who was appointed chairman of the President's Scientific Research Board in October 1946, came to prominence. Bush's authority, both among scientists and politicians, suffered a rapid decline, though he remained a revered figure. In September 1949, he was appointed to head a scientific panel that included Oppenheimer to review the evidence that the Soviet Union had tested its first atomic bomb. The panel concluded that it had, and this finding was relayed to Truman, who made the public announcement. During 1952 Bush was one of five members of the State Department Panel of Consultants on Disarmament, and led the panel in urging that the United States postpone its planned first test of the hydrogen bomb and seek a test ban with the Soviet Union, on the grounds that avoiding a test might forestall development of a catastrophic new weapon and open the way for new arms agreements between the two nations. The panel lacked political allies in Washington, however, and the Ivy Mike shot went ahead as scheduled. Bush was outraged when a security hearing stripped Oppenheimer of his security clearance in 1954; he issued a strident attack on Oppenheimer's accusers in The New York Times. Alfred Friendly summed up the feeling of many scientists in declaring that Bush had become "the Grand Old Man of American science". 
      Bush continued to serve on the NACA through 1948 and expressed annoyance with aircraft companies for delaying development of a turbojet engine because of the huge expense of research and development as well as retooling from older piston engines. He was similarly disappointed with the automobile industry, which showed no interest in his proposals for more fuel-efficient engines. General Motors told him that "even if it were a better engine,  would not be interested in it." Bush likewise deplored trends in advertising. "Madison Avenue believes", he said, "that if you tell the public something absurd, but do it enough times, the public will ultimately register it in its stock of accepted verities." 
      From 1947 to 1962, Bush was on the board of directors for American Telephone and Telegraph. He retired as president of the Carnegie Institution and returned to Massachusetts in 1955, but remained a director of Metals and Controls Corporation from 1952 to 1959, and of Merck &amp; Co. 1949–1962. Bush became chairman of the board at Merck following the death of George W. Merck, serving until 1962. He worked closely with the company's president, Max Tishler, although Bush was concerned about Tishler's reluctance to delegate responsibility. Bush distrusted the company's sales organization, but supported Tishler's research and development efforts. He was a trustee of Tufts College 1943–1962, of Johns Hopkins University 1943–1955, of the Carnegie Corporation of New York 1939–1950, the Carnegie Institution of Washington 1958–1974, and the George Putnam Fund of Boston 1956–1972, and was a regent of the Smithsonian Institution 1943–1955.  
      Final years and death 
      After suffering a stroke, Bush died in Belmont, Massachusetts, at the age of 84 from pneumonia on June 28, 1974. He was survived by his sons Richard (a surgeon) and John (president of Millipore Corporation) and by six grandchildren and his sister Edith. Bush's wife had died in 1969. He was buried at South Dennis Cemetery in South Dennis, Massachusetts, after a private funeral service. At a public memorial subsequently held by MIT, Jerome Wiesner declared "No American has had greater influence in the growth of science and technology than Vannevar Bush".  
      Awards and honors 
      
       Bush received the AIEE's Edison Medal in 1943, "for his contribution to the advancement of electrical engineering, particularly through the development of new applications of mathematics to engineering problems, and for his eminent service to the nation in guiding the war research program." 
       In 1945, Bush was awarded the Public Welfare Medal from the National Academy of Sciences. 
       In 1949, he received the IRI Medal from the Industrial Research Institute in recognition of his contributions as a leader of research and development. 
       President Truman awarded Bush the Medal of Merit with bronze oak leaf cluster in 1948. 
       President Lyndon Johnson awarded him the National Medal of Science in 1963. 
       President Richard Nixon presented him, as well as James B. Conant and General Leslie R. Groves with the unique Atomic Pioneers Award from the Atomic Energy Commission in February 1970. 
       Bush was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1948, and an Officer of the French Legion of Honor in 1955.
       
      In 1980, the National Science Foundation created the Vannevar Bush Award to honor his contributions to public service. The Vannevar Bush papers are located in several places, with the majority of the collection held at the Library of Congress. Additional papers are held by the MIT Institute Archives and Special Collections, the Carnegie Institution, and the National Archives and Records Administration.  
      
       
        
          
         
          
           
          This inscription honoring Vannevar Bush is in the lobby of MIT's Building&nbsp;13, which is named after him, and is the home of the Center for Materials Science and Engineering.
         
        
       
       
      See also 
      
       List of pioneers in computer science
       
      Bibliography 
      (complete list of published papers: Wiesner 1979, pp.&nbsp;107–117).  
      
       Bush, Vannevar; Timbie, William H. (1922). Principles of Electrical Engineering. John Wiley &amp; Sons – via Internet Archive. 
       
        Bush, Vannevar; Wiener, Norbert (1929). Operational Circuit Analysis. New York: J. Wiley &amp; Sons. OCLC&nbsp;2167931. 
       
        —— (1945). Science, the Endless Frontier: a Report to the President. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office. OCLC&nbsp;1594001. Retrieved May 25, 2012. 
       
        —— (1946). Endless Horizons. Washington, D.C.: Public Affairs Press. OCLC&nbsp;1152058. 
       
        —— (1949). Modern Arms and Free Men: a Discussion of the Role of Science in Preserving Democracy. New York: Simon and Schuster. OCLC&nbsp;568075. 
       
        Bush, Vannevar (1967). Science Is Not Enough. New York: Morrow. OCLC&nbsp;520108. 
       
        Bush, Vannevar (1970). Pieces of the Action. New York: Morrow. OCLC&nbsp;93366.
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush". Computer Science Tree. Retrieved November 8, 2015.  
        ^ a b c 
          Meyer, Michal (2018). "The Rise and Fall of Vannevar Bush". Distillations. Science History Institute. 4 (2): 6–7. Retrieved August 20, 2018.  
        ^ 
          Houston, Ronald D.; Harmon, Glynn (2007). "Vannevar Bush and memex". Annual Review of Information Science and Technology. 41 (1): 55–92. doi:10.1002/aris.2007.1440410109.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;12–13.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;22.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;25–27.  
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush's profile tracer". National Museum of American History. Retrieved March 12, 2015.  
        ^ Wiesner 1979, pp.&nbsp;90–91.  
        ^ a b c d Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;28–32.  
        ^ Puchta 1996, p.&nbsp;58.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;41, 245.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;33–38.  
        ^ Owens 1991, p.&nbsp;15.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;39–43.  
        ^ 
          "History of Our Company". Sensata Technologies. Archived from the original on 2 June 2014. Retrieved 14 June 2014.  
        ^ 
          "Raytheon Company". International Directory of Company Histories. St. James Press. 2001. Retrieved May 31, 2012.  
        ^ Owens 1991, pp.&nbsp;6–11.  
        ^ Brittain 2008, pp.&nbsp;2132–2133.  
        ^ Wiesner 1979, p.&nbsp;106.  
        ^ 
          L.E.P. (1929). "Review of Operational Circuit Analysis by Vannevar Bush". Journal of the Franklin Institute. 208 (1): 131–132. doi:10.1016/S0016-0032(29)90969-8.  
        ^ 
          "Claude E. Shannon, an oral history conducted in 1982 by Robert Price". IEEE Global History Network. New Brunswick, New Jersey: IEEE History Center. 1982. Retrieved July 14, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "MIT Professor Claude Shannon dies; was founder of digital communications". MIT News. February 27, 2001. Retrieved May 28, 2012.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;76–78.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;55–56.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;83–85.  
        ^ a b c Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;91–95.  
        ^ Sullivan 2016, p.&nbsp;69.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;93.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;94.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;98–99.  
        ^ 
          Evans, Ryan Thomas (2010). "Aviation at sunrise: shortcomings of the American Air Forces in North Africa during TORCH compared to the Royal Air Force on Malta, 1941–1942". WWU Masters Thesis Collection. Western Washington University. pp.&nbsp;34–38. Paper 76. Retrieved March 12, 2015.  
        ^ Roland 1985, p.&nbsp;427.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;104–112.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;129.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;7.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;119.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, pp.&nbsp;10–12.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;106.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;125.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;124–127.  
        ^ Conant 2002, pp.&nbsp;168–169, 182.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;132–134.  
        ^ Honeywell, Inc. v. Sperry Rand Corp., 180 U.S.P.Q. (BNA) 673, p. 20, finding 1.1.3 (U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division 1973) ("...&nbsp;the ENIAC machine was being operated rather than tested after 1&nbsp;December 1945.").  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;266–267.  
        ^ 
          Roosevelt, Franklin D. (June 28, 1941). "Executive Order&nbsp;8807 Establishing the Office of Scientific Research and Development". The American Presidency Project. Archived from the original on December 1, 2021. Retrieved June 28, 2011.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;127–129.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;189.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;185.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;190.  
        ^ Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;322.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;130–131.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;124–125.  
        ^ a b Stewart 1948, p.&nbsp;276.  
        ^ 
          Reinholds, Robert. "Dr.&nbsp;Vannevar Bush is dead at 84; Dr.&nbsp;Vannevar Bush, who marshaled nation's wartime technology and ushered in Atomic Age, is dead at 84". GN. The New York Times. p.&nbsp;1.  
        ^ a b Furer 1959, pp.&nbsp;346–347.  
        ^ 
          "Section&nbsp;T "Proximity Fuze" Records, 1940– (bulk 1941–1943)". Carnegie Institution of Washington. Retrieved June 7, 2012.  
        ^ Christman 1998, pp.&nbsp;86–91.  
        ^ Furer 1959, p.&nbsp;348.  
        ^ a b Furer 1959, p.&nbsp;349.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;176, 180–183.  
        ^ Baxter 1946, p.&nbsp;241.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;179.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;177.  
        ^ Bush 1970, p.&nbsp;307.  
        ^ Goldberg 1992, p.&nbsp;451.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, p.&nbsp;25.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;40–41.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;45–46.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;203.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;51, 71–72.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, p.&nbsp;61.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;72–75.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;78–83.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;259–260.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;264–270.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;211.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;276–280.  
        ^ 
          "Dr.&nbsp;Vannevar Bush". Time. Vol.&nbsp;XLIII, no.&nbsp;14. April 3, 1944. Archived from the original on December 14, 2008.  
        ^ Bush 1970, pp.&nbsp;114–116.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;344–345.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, pp.&nbsp;360–361.  
        ^ Hewlett &amp; Anderson 1962, p.&nbsp;378.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;280.  
        ^ 
          Wellerstein, Alex (July 25, 2012). "Biological Warfare: Vannevar Bush's "Entering Wedge" (1944)". Restricted Data. Retrieved August 21, 2018.  
        ^ a b c d e f 
          Bush, Vannevar (July 1945). "As We May Think". The Atlantic Monthly. Retrieved April 20, 2012.  
        ^ 
          Bush, Vannevar (September 10, 1945). "As We May Think". Life. pp.&nbsp;112–124. Retrieved April 20, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "A Lifetime Pursuit". Doug Engelbart Institute. Retrieved April 25, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Hypertext". Doug Engelbart Institute. Retrieved April 25, 2012.  
        ^ Crawford 1996, p.&nbsp;671.  
        ^ Buckland 1992, p.&nbsp;284.  
        ^ Johnston &amp; Webber 2006, p.&nbsp;109.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;246–249.  
        ^ 
          "Science the Endless Frontier: A Report to the President by Vannevar Bush, Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development". National Science Foundation. July 1945. Retrieved April 22, 2012.  
        ^ Greenberg 2001, pp.&nbsp;44–45.  
        ^ Greenberg 2001, p.&nbsp;52.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;253–256.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;328.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;332.  
        ^ 
          "Records of the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD)". National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved May 21, 2012.  
        ^ Hershberg 1993, p.&nbsp;397.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;318–323.  
        ^ Hershberg 1993, pp.&nbsp;305–309.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;368–369.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;336–345.  
        ^ Hershberg 1993, p.&nbsp;393.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;330–331.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;346–347.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;348–349.  
        ^ a b 
          Bernstein, Barton J. (Fall 1987). "Crossing the Rubicon: A Missed Opportunity to Stop the H-Bomb?". International Security. 14 (2): 139–142, 145–149. JSTOR&nbsp;2538857.  
        ^ a b Zachary 1997, pp.&nbsp;377–378.  
        ^ Dawson 1991, p.&nbsp;80.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;387.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;386.  
        ^ a b Wiesner 1979, p.&nbsp;108.  
        ^ Werth 1994, p.&nbsp;132.  
        ^ a b c Wiesner 1979, p.&nbsp;107.  
        ^ Wiesner 1979, p.&nbsp;105.  
        ^ 
          "Dennis 1974 Annual Town Reports" (PDF). Retrieved June 14, 2012.  
        ^ Zachary 1997, p.&nbsp;407.  
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush". IEEE Global History Network. IEEE. Retrieved July 25, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Public Welfare Award". National Academy of Sciences. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved February 14, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "The President's National Medal of Science". National Science Foundation. Retrieved April 22, 2012.  
        ^ 
          Nixon, Richard (February 27, 1970). "Remarks on Presenting the Atomic Pioneers Award". The American Presidency Project. Archived from the original on February 1, 2013. Retrieved April 22, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush Award". National Science Foundation. Retrieved April 22, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush Papers, 1921–1975". Manuscript Collection. MIT Institute Archives &amp; Special Collections. MC&nbsp;78. Retrieved May 26, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Vannevar Bush Papers 1901–1974". Library of Congress. Retrieved May 21, 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Carnegie Institution of Washington Administration Records, 1890–2001". Carnegie Institution of Washington. Retrieved May 21, 2012.  
        ^ Wiesner 1979, p.&nbsp;101.  
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
        
         Baxter, James Phinney (1946). Scientists Against Time. Boston: Little, Brown and Co. OCLC&nbsp;1084158. 
        
         Brittain, James E. (December 2008). "Electrical Engineering Hall of Fame: Vannevar Bush". Proceedings of the IEEE. 96 (12): 2131. doi:10.1109/JPROC.2008.2006199. 
        
         Buckland, Michael (May 1992). "Emanuel Goldberg, Electronic Document Retrieval, and Vannevar Bush's Memex". Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 43 (4): 284–294. doi:10.1002/(sici)1097-4571(199205)43:4&lt;284::aid-asi3&gt;3.0.co;2-0. 
        
         Conant, Jennet (2002). Tuxedo Park. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-684-87287-2. OCLC&nbsp;48966735. 
        
         Christman, Albert B. (1998). Target Hiroshima: Deak Parsons and the Creation of the Atomic Bomb. Annapolis, Maryland: Naval Institute Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55750-120-2. OCLC&nbsp;38257982. 
        
         Crawford, T. Hugh (Winter 1996). "Paterson, Memex, and Hypertext". American Literary History. 8 (4): 665–682. doi:10.1093/alh/8.4.665. JSTOR&nbsp;490117. 
        
         Dawson, Virginia P. (1991). Engines and Innovation: Lewis Laboratory and American Propulsion Technology. Scientific and Technical Information Division. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-16-030742-3. OCLC&nbsp;22665627. Archived from the original on November 13, 2004. Retrieved April 22, 2012. 
        
         Furer, Julius Augustus (1959). Administration of the Navy Department in World War II. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office. OCLC&nbsp;1915787. 
        
         Goldberg, Stanley (September 1992). "Inventing a climate of opinion: Vannevar Bush and the Decision to Build the Bomb". Isis. 83 (3): 429–452. doi:10.1086/356203. JSTOR&nbsp;233904. S2CID&nbsp;143454986. 
        
         Greenberg, Daniel S. (2001). Science, Money, and Politics: Political Triumph and Ethical Erosion. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-30634-6. OCLC&nbsp;45661689. 
        
         Hershberg, James G. (1993). James B. Conant: Harvard to Hiroshima and the making of the nuclear age. New York: Knopf. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-394-57966-5. OCLC&nbsp;27678159. 
        
         Hewlett, Richard G.; Anderson, Oscar E. (1962). The New World, 1939–1946 (PDF). University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-520-07186-5. OCLC&nbsp;637004643. Retrieved March 26, 2013. 
        
         Johnston, Bill; Webber, Sheila (2006). "As We May Think: Information Literacy as a Discipline for the information age". Research Strategies. 20 (3): 108–121. doi:10.1016/j.resstr.2006.06.005. ISSN&nbsp;0734-3310. 
        
         Owens, Larry (1991). "Vannevar Bush and the Differential Analyzer: The text and context of and early computer". In Nyce, James M.; Kahn, Paul (eds.). From Memex to Hypertext: Vannevar Bush and the Mind's Machine. Boston, MA: Academic Press. pp.&nbsp;3–38. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-12-523270-8. OCLC&nbsp;24870981. 
        
         Puchta, Susann (Winter 1996). "On the Role of Mathematics and Mathematical Knowledge in the Invention of Vannevar Bush's Early Analog Computers". IEEE Annals of the History of Computing. 18 (4): 49–59. doi:10.1109/85.539916. 
        
         Roland, Alex (1985). Model Research. Scientific and Technical Information Branch. Vol.&nbsp;2. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration. SP-4103. Archived from the original on November 13, 2004. Retrieved July 1, 2012. 
        
         Stewart, Irvin (1948). Organizing Scientific Research for War: The administrative history of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. Boston, MA: Little, Brown, and Company. OCLC&nbsp;500138898. Retrieved April 1, 2012. 
        
         Sullivan, Neil J. (2016). The Prometheus Bomb: The Manhattan Project and Government in the Dark. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-61234-815-5. 
        
         Wiesner, Jerome B. (1979). Vannevar Bush, 1890–1974: A Biographical Memoir (PDF). Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences of the United States. OCLC&nbsp;79828818. Retrieved January 27, 2016. 
        
         Werth, Barry (1994). The Billion-Dollar Molecule: One Company's Quest for the Perfect Drug. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-671-72327-9. OCLC&nbsp;28721852. 
        
         Zachary, G. Pascal (1997). Endless Frontier: Vannevar Bush, Engineer of the American Century. New York: The Free Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-684-82821-3. OCLC&nbsp;36521020.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Vannevar Bush
         
       
       
      
       
        "Vannevar Bush papers, 1901–1974". Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress. 
       
        "Vannevar Bush papers, 1910–1988". Tufts University. hdl:10427/57028. 
       Vannevar Bush Papers, MC-0078. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Department of Distinctive Collections, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 
       
        "MIT Web Museum". 
       
        "1995 MIT / Brown U. Vannevar Bush Symposium". complete video archive. 
       
        "The Vannevar Bush Index". Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum. 
       Video demonstrating the ideas behind the Memex system on YouTube 
       
        "Pictures of Vannevar Bush". Tufts Digital Library. 
       
        "Biographical Memoir" (PDF). National Academy of Sciences.
       
       
       
         
         Government offices 
         
         
         Preceded&nbsp;by
          
           Joseph Ames
            
          Chairman of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics 1939–1941  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Jerome Hunsaker
           
         
         
         New office  
          Chairman of the National Defense Research Committee 1940–1941  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           James B. Conant
           
         
         
          Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development 1941–1947  
         Position abolished 
         
         
          Chairman of the Research and Development Board 1947–1948  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Karl Compton
           
         
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            IEEE Edison Medal
           
         
         
          1926–1950
          
            
            
             William D. Coolidge (1927) 
             Frank B. Jewett (1928) 
             Charles F. Scott (1929) 
             Frank Conrad (1930) 
             Edwin W. Rice (1931) 
             Bancroft Gherardi (1932) 
             Arthur Edwin Kennelly (1933) 
             Willis R. Whitney (1934) 
             Lewis B. Stillwell (1935) 
             Alex Dow (1936) 
             Gano Dunn (1937) 
             Dugald C. Jackson (1938) 
             Philip Torchio (1939) 
             George Ashley Campbell (1940) 
             John B. Whitehead (1941) 
             Edwin H. Armstrong (1942) 
             Vannevar Bush (1943) 
             Ernst Alexanderson (1944) 
             Philip Sporn (1945) 
             Lee De Forest (1946) 
             Joseph Slepian (1947) 
             Morris E. Leeds (1948) 
             Karl B. McEachron (1949) 
             Otto B. Blackwell (1950)
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            United States National Medal of Science laureates
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Behavioral and social science
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Neal Elgar Miller
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Herbert A. Simon
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      Anne Anastasi
                      
                     
                      George J. Stigler
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      Milton Friedman
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      Leonid Hurwicz
                      
                     
                      Patrick Suppes
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      George A. Miller
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Eleanor J. Gibson
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      Robert K. Merton
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Roger N. Shepard
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      Paul Samuelson
                      
                     
                      1997
                      
                     
                      William K. Estes
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      William Julius Wilson
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      Robert M. Solow
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      Gary Becker
                      
                     
                      2003
                      
                     
                      R. Duncan Luce
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Kenneth Arrow
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Gordon H. Bower
                      
                     
                      2008
                      
                     
                      Michael I. Posner
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      Mortimer Mishkin
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      Anne Treisman
                      
                     
                      2014
                      
                     
                      Robert Axelrod
                      
                     
                      2015
                      
                     
                      Albert Bandura
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Biological sciences
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1963
                      
                     
                      C. B. van Niel
                      
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Theodosius Dobzhansky
                      
                     
                      Marshall W. Nirenberg
                      
                     
                      1965
                      
                     
                      Francis P. Rous
                      
                     
                      George G. Simpson
                      
                     
                      Donald D. Van Slyke
                      
                     
                      1966
                      
                     
                      Edward F. Knipling
                      
                     
                      Fritz Albert Lipmann
                      
                     
                      William C. Rose
                      
                     
                      Sewall Wright
                      
                     
                      1967
                      
                     
                      Kenneth S. Cole
                      
                     
                      Harry F. Harlow
                      
                     
                      Michael Heidelberger
                      
                     
                      Alfred H. Sturtevant
                      
                     
                      1968
                      
                     
                      Horace Barker
                      
                     
                      Bernard B. Brodie
                      
                     
                      Detlev W. Bronk
                      
                     
                      Jay Lush
                      
                     
                      Burrhus Frederic Skinner
                      
                     
                      1969
                      
                     
                      Robert Huebner
                      
                     
                      Ernst Mayr
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1970s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1970
                      
                     
                      Barbara McClintock
                      
                     
                      Albert B. Sabin
                      
                     
                      1973
                      
                     
                      Daniel I. Arnon
                      
                     
                      Earl W. Sutherland Jr.
                      
                     
                      1974
                      
                     
                      Britton Chance
                      
                     
                      Erwin Chargaff
                      
                     
                      James V. Neel
                      
                     
                      James Augustine Shannon
                      
                     
                      1975
                      
                     
                      Hallowell Davis
                      
                     
                      Paul Gyorgy
                      
                     
                      Sterling B. Hendricks
                      
                     
                      Orville Alvin Vogel
                      
                     
                      1976
                      
                     
                      Roger Guillemin
                      
                     
                      Keith Roberts Porter
                      
                     
                      Efraim Racker
                      
                     
                      E. O. Wilson
                      
                     
                      1979
                      
                     
                      Robert H. Burris
                      
                     
                      Elizabeth C. Crosby
                      
                     
                      Arthur Kornberg
                      
                     
                      Severo Ochoa
                      
                     
                      Earl Reece Stadtman
                      
                     
                      George Ledyard Stebbins
                      
                     
                      Paul Alfred Weiss
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1981
                      
                     
                      Philip Handler
                      
                     
                      1982
                      
                     
                      Seymour Benzer
                      
                     
                      Glenn W. Burton
                      
                     
                      Mildred Cohn
                      
                     
                      1983
                      
                     
                      Howard L. Bachrach
                      
                     
                      Paul Berg
                      
                     
                      Wendell L. Roelofs
                      
                     
                      Berta Scharrer
                      
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Stanley Cohen
                      
                     
                      Donald A. Henderson
                      
                     
                      Vernon B. Mountcastle
                      
                     
                      George Emil Palade
                      
                     
                      Joan A. Steitz
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      Michael E. DeBakey
                      
                     
                      Theodor O. Diener
                      
                     
                      Harry Eagle
                      
                     
                      Har Gobind Khorana
                      
                     
                      Rita Levi-Montalcini
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      Michael S. Brown
                      
                     
                      Stanley Norman Cohen
                      
                     
                      Joseph L. Goldstein
                      
                     
                      Maurice R. Hilleman
                      
                     
                      Eric R. Kandel
                      
                     
                      Rosalyn Sussman Yalow
                      
                     
                      1989
                      
                     
                      Katherine Esau
                      
                     
                      Viktor Hamburger
                      
                     
                      Philip Leder
                      
                     
                      Joshua Lederberg
                      
                     
                      Roger W. Sperry
                      
                     
                      Harland G. Wood
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      Baruj Benacerraf
                      
                     
                      Herbert W. Boyer
                      
                     
                      Daniel E. Koshland Jr.
                      
                     
                      Edward B. Lewis
                      
                     
                      David G. Nathan
                      
                     
                      E. Donnall Thomas
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      Mary Ellen Avery
                      
                     
                      G. Evelyn Hutchinson
                      
                     
                      Elvin A. Kabat
                      
                     
                      Robert W. Kates
                      
                     
                      Salvador Luria
                      
                     
                      Paul A. Marks
                      
                     
                      Folke K. Skoog
                      
                     
                      Paul C. Zamecnik
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Maxine Singer
                      
                     
                      Howard Martin Temin
                      
                     
                      1993
                      
                     
                      Daniel Nathans
                      
                     
                      Salome G. Waelsch
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      Thomas Eisner
                      
                     
                      Elizabeth F. Neufeld
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Alexander Rich
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      Ruth Patrick
                      
                     
                      1997
                      
                     
                      James Watson
                      
                     
                      Robert A. Weinberg
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      Bruce Ames
                      
                     
                      Janet Rowley
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      David Baltimore
                      
                     
                      Jared Diamond
                      
                     
                      Lynn Margulis
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      Nancy C. Andreasen
                      
                     
                      Peter H. Raven
                      
                     
                      Carl Woese
                      
                     
                      2001
                      
                     
                      Francisco J. Ayala
                      
                     
                      George F. Bass
                      
                     
                      Mario R. Capecchi
                      
                     
                      Ann Graybiel
                      
                     
                      Gene E. Likens
                      
                     
                      Victor A. McKusick
                      
                     
                      Harold Varmus
                      
                     
                      2002
                      
                     
                      James E. Darnell
                      
                     
                      Evelyn M. Witkin
                      
                     
                      2003
                      
                     
                      J. Michael Bishop
                      
                     
                      Solomon H. Snyder
                      
                     
                      Charles Yanofsky
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Norman E. Borlaug
                      
                     
                      Phillip A. Sharp
                      
                     
                      Thomas E. Starzl
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Anthony Fauci
                      
                     
                      Torsten N. Wiesel
                      
                     
                      2006
                      
                     
                      Rita R. Colwell
                      
                     
                      Nina Fedoroff
                      
                     
                      Lubert Stryer
                      
                     
                      2007
                      
                     
                      Robert J. Lefkowitz
                      
                     
                      Bert W. O'Malley
                      
                     
                      2008
                      
                     
                      Francis S. Collins
                      
                     
                      Elaine Fuchs
                      
                     
                      J. Craig Venter
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      Susan L. Lindquist
                      
                     
                      Stanley B. Prusiner
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2010
                      
                     
                      Ralph L. Brinster
                      
                     
                      Rudolf Jaenisch
                      
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      Lucy Shapiro
                      
                     
                      Leroy Hood
                      
                     
                      Sallie Chisholm
                      
                     
                      2012
                      
                     
                      May Berenbaum
                      
                     
                      Bruce Alberts
                      
                     
                      2013
                      
                     
                      Rakesh K. Jain
                      
                     
                      2014
                      
                     
                      Stanley Falkow
                      
                     
                      Mary-Claire King
                      
                     
                      Simon Levin
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Chemistry
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Roger Adams
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1982
                      
                     
                      F. Albert Cotton
                      
                     
                      Gilbert Stork
                      
                     
                      1983
                      
                     
                      Roald Hoffmann
                      
                     
                      George C. Pimentel
                      
                     
                      Richard N. Zare
                      
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Harry B. Gray
                      
                     
                      Yuan Tseh Lee
                      
                     
                      Carl S. Marvel
                      
                     
                      Frank H. Westheimer
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      William S. Johnson
                      
                     
                      Walter H. Stockmayer
                      
                     
                      Max Tishler
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      William O. Baker
                      
                     
                      Konrad E. Bloch
                      
                     
                      Elias J. Corey
                      
                     
                      1989
                      
                     
                      Richard B. Bernstein
                      
                     
                      Melvin Calvin
                      
                     
                      Rudolph A. Marcus
                      
                     
                      Harden M. McConnell
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      Elkan Blout
                      
                     
                      Karl Folkers
                      
                     
                      John D. Roberts
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      Ronald Breslow
                      
                     
                      Gertrude B. Elion
                      
                     
                      Dudley R. Herschbach
                      
                     
                      Glenn T. Seaborg
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Howard E. Simmons Jr.
                      
                     
                      1993
                      
                     
                      Donald J. Cram
                      
                     
                      Norman Hackerman
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      George S. Hammond
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Thomas Cech
                      
                     
                      Isabella L. Karle
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      Norman Davidson
                      
                     
                      1997
                      
                     
                      Darleane C. Hoffman
                      
                     
                      Harold S. Johnston
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      John W. Cahn
                      
                     
                      George M. Whitesides
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      Stuart A. Rice
                      
                     
                      John Ross
                      
                     
                      Susan Solomon
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      John D. Baldeschwieler
                      
                     
                      Ralph F. Hirschmann
                      
                     
                      2001
                      
                     
                      Ernest R. Davidson
                      
                     
                      Gábor A. Somorjai
                      
                     
                      2002
                      
                     
                      John I. Brauman
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Stephen J. Lippard
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Tobin J. Marks
                      
                     
                      2006
                      
                     
                      Marvin H. Caruthers
                      
                     
                      Peter B. Dervan
                      
                     
                      2007
                      
                     
                      Mostafa A. El-Sayed
                      
                     
                      2008
                      
                     
                      Joanna Fowler
                      
                     
                      JoAnne Stubbe
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      Stephen J. Benkovic
                      
                     
                      Marye Anne Fox
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2010
                      
                     
                      Jacqueline K. Barton
                      
                     
                      Peter J. Stang
                      
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      Allen J. Bard
                      
                     
                      M. Frederick Hawthorne
                      
                     
                      2012
                      
                     
                      Judith P. Klinman
                      
                     
                      Jerrold Meinwald
                      
                     
                      2013
                      
                     
                      Geraldine L. Richmond
                      
                     
                      2014
                      
                     
                      A. Paul Alivisatos
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Engineering sciences
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1962
                      
                     
                      Theodore von Kármán
                      
                     
                      1963
                      
                     
                      Vannevar Bush
                      
                     
                      John Robinson Pierce
                      
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Charles S. Draper
                      
                     
                      Othmar H. Ammann
                      
                     
                      1965
                      
                     
                      Hugh L. Dryden
                      
                     
                      Clarence L. Johnson
                      
                     
                      Warren K. Lewis
                      
                     
                      1966
                      
                     
                      Claude E. Shannon
                      
                     
                      1967
                      
                     
                      Edwin H. Land
                      
                     
                      Igor I. Sikorsky
                      
                     
                      1968
                      
                     
                      J. Presper Eckert
                      
                     
                      Nathan M. Newmark
                      
                     
                      1969
                      
                     
                      Jack St. Clair Kilby
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1970s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1970
                      
                     
                      George E. Mueller
                      
                     
                      1973
                      
                     
                      Harold E. Edgerton
                      
                     
                      Richard T. Whitcomb
                      
                     
                      1974
                      
                     
                      Rudolf Kompfner
                      
                     
                      Ralph Brazelton Peck
                      
                     
                      Abel Wolman
                      
                     
                      1975
                      
                     
                      Manson Benedict
                      
                     
                      William Hayward Pickering
                      
                     
                      Frederick E. Terman
                      
                     
                      Wernher von Braun
                      
                     
                      1976
                      
                     
                      Morris Cohen
                      
                     
                      Peter C. Goldmark
                      
                     
                      Erwin Wilhelm Müller
                      
                     
                      1979
                      
                     
                      Emmett N. Leith
                      
                     
                      Raymond D. Mindlin
                      
                     
                      Robert N. Noyce
                      
                     
                      Earl R. Parker
                      
                     
                      Simon Ramo
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1982
                      
                     
                      Edward H. Heinemann
                      
                     
                      Donald L. Katz
                      
                     
                      1983
                      
                     
                      Bill Hewlett
                      
                     
                      George Low
                      
                     
                      John G. Trump
                      
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Hans Wolfgang Liepmann
                      
                     
                      Tung-Yen Lin
                      
                     
                      Bernard M. Oliver
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      Robert Byron Bird
                      
                     
                      H. Bolton Seed
                      
                     
                      Ernst Weber
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      Daniel C. Drucker
                      
                     
                      Willis M. Hawkins
                      
                     
                      George W. Housner
                      
                     
                      1989
                      
                     
                      Harry George Drickamer
                      
                     
                      Herbert E. Grier
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      Mildred Dresselhaus
                      
                     
                      Nick Holonyak Jr.
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      George H. Heilmeier
                      
                     
                      Luna B. Leopold
                      
                     
                      H. Guyford Stever
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Calvin F. Quate
                      
                     
                      John Roy Whinnery
                      
                     
                      1993
                      
                     
                      Alfred Y. Cho
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      Ray W. Clough
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Hermann A. Haus
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      James L. Flanagan
                      
                     
                      C. Kumar N. Patel
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      Eli Ruckenstein
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      Kenneth N. Stevens
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      Yuan-Cheng B. Fung
                      
                     
                      2001
                      
                     
                      Andreas Acrivos
                      
                     
                      2002
                      
                     
                      Leo Beranek
                      
                     
                      2003
                      
                     
                      John M. Prausnitz
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Edwin N. Lightfoot
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Jan D. Achenbach
                      
                     
                      2006
                      
                     
                      Robert S. Langer
                      
                     
                      2007
                      
                     
                      David J. Wineland
                      
                     
                      2008
                      
                     
                      Rudolf E. Kálmán
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      Amnon Yariv
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2010
                      
                     
                      Shu Chien
                      
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      John B. Goodenough
                      
                     
                      2012
                      
                     
                      Thomas Kailath
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Mathematical, statistical, and computer sciences
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1963
                      
                     
                      Norbert Wiener
                      
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Solomon Lefschetz
                      
                     
                      H. Marston Morse
                      
                     
                      1965
                      
                     
                      Oscar Zariski
                      
                     
                      1966
                      
                     
                      John Milnor
                      
                     
                      1967
                      
                     
                      Paul Cohen
                      
                     
                      1968
                      
                     
                      Jerzy Neyman
                      
                     
                      1969
                      
                     
                      William Feller
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1970s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1970
                      
                     
                      Richard Brauer
                      
                     
                      1973
                      
                     
                      John Tukey
                      
                     
                      1974
                      
                     
                      Kurt Gödel
                      
                     
                      1975
                      
                     
                      John W. Backus
                      
                     
                      Shiing-Shen Chern
                      
                     
                      George Dantzig
                      
                     
                      1976
                      
                     
                      Kurt Otto Friedrichs
                      
                     
                      Hassler Whitney
                      
                     
                      1979
                      
                     
                      Joseph L. Doob
                      
                     
                      Donald E. Knuth
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1982
                      
                     
                      Marshall Harvey Stone
                      
                     
                      1983
                      
                     
                      Herman Goldstine
                      
                     
                      Isadore Singer
                      
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Peter Lax
                      
                     
                      Antoni Zygmund
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      Raoul Bott
                      
                     
                      Michael Freedman
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      Ralph E. Gomory
                      
                     
                      Joseph B. Keller
                      
                     
                      1989
                      
                     
                      Samuel Karlin
                      
                     
                      Saunders Mac Lane
                      
                     
                      Donald C. Spencer
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      George F. Carrier
                      
                     
                      Stephen Cole Kleene
                      
                     
                      John McCarthy
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      Alberto Calderón
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Allen Newell
                      
                     
                      1993
                      
                     
                      Martin David Kruskal
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      John Cocke
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Louis Nirenberg
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      Richard Karp
                      
                     
                      Stephen Smale
                      
                     
                      1997
                      
                     
                      Shing-Tung Yau
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      Cathleen Synge Morawetz
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      Felix Browder
                      
                     
                      Ronald R. Coifman
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      John Griggs Thompson
                      
                     
                      Karen Uhlenbeck
                      
                     
                      2001
                      
                     
                      Calyampudi R. Rao
                      
                     
                      Elias M. Stein
                      
                     
                      2002
                      
                     
                      James G. Glimm
                      
                     
                      2003
                      
                     
                      Carl R. de Boor
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Dennis P. Sullivan
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Bradley Efron
                      
                     
                      2006
                      
                     
                      Hyman Bass
                      
                     
                      2007
                      
                     
                      Leonard Kleinrock
                      
                     
                      Andrew J. Viterbi
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      David B. Mumford
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2010
                      
                     
                      Richard A. Tapia
                      
                     
                      S. R. Srinivasa Varadhan
                      
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      Solomon W. Golomb
                      
                     
                      Barry Mazur
                      
                     
                      2012
                      
                     
                      Alexandre Chorin
                      
                     
                      David Blackwell
                      
                     
                      2013
                      
                     
                      Michael Artin
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Physical sciences
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  1960s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1963
                      
                     
                      Luis W. Alvarez
                      
                     
                      1964
                      
                     
                      Julian Schwinger
                      
                     
                      Harold Urey
                      
                     
                      Robert Burns Woodward
                      
                     
                      1965
                      
                     
                      John Bardeen
                      
                     
                      Peter Debye
                      
                     
                      Leon M. Lederman
                      
                     
                      William Rubey
                      
                     
                      1966
                      
                     
                      Jacob Bjerknes
                      
                     
                      Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar
                      
                     
                      Henry Eyring
                      
                     
                      John H. Van Vleck
                      
                     
                      Vladimir K. Zworykin
                      
                     
                      1967
                      
                     
                      Jesse Beams
                      
                     
                      Francis Birch
                      
                     
                      Gregory Breit
                      
                     
                      Louis Hammett
                      
                     
                      George Kistiakowsky
                      
                     
                      1968
                      
                     
                      Paul Bartlett
                      
                     
                      Herbert Friedman
                      
                     
                      Lars Onsager
                      
                     
                      Eugene Wigner
                      
                     
                      1969
                      
                     
                      Herbert C. Brown
                      
                     
                      Wolfgang Panofsky
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1970s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1970
                      
                     
                      Robert H. Dicke
                      
                     
                      Allan R. Sandage
                      
                     
                      John C. Slater
                      
                     
                      John A. Wheeler
                      
                     
                      Saul Winstein
                      
                     
                      1973
                      
                     
                      Carl Djerassi
                      
                     
                      Maurice Ewing
                      
                     
                      Arie Jan Haagen-Smit
                      
                     
                      Vladimir Haensel
                      
                     
                      Frederick Seitz
                      
                     
                      Robert Rathbun Wilson
                      
                     
                      1974
                      
                     
                      Nicolaas Bloembergen
                      
                     
                      Paul Flory
                      
                     
                      William Alfred Fowler
                      
                     
                      Linus Carl Pauling
                      
                     
                      Kenneth Sanborn Pitzer
                      
                     
                      1975
                      
                     
                      Hans A. Bethe
                      
                     
                      Joseph O. Hirschfelder
                      
                     
                      Lewis Sarett
                      
                     
                      Edgar Bright Wilson
                      
                     
                      Chien-Shiung Wu
                      
                     
                      1976
                      
                     
                      Samuel Goudsmit
                      
                     
                      Herbert S. Gutowsky
                      
                     
                      Frederick Rossini
                      
                     
                      Verner Suomi
                      
                     
                      Henry Taube
                      
                     
                      George Uhlenbeck
                      
                     
                      1979
                      
                     
                      Richard P. Feynman
                      
                     
                      Herman Mark
                      
                     
                      Edward M. Purcell
                      
                     
                      John Sinfelt
                      
                     
                      Lyman Spitzer
                      
                     
                      Victor F. Weisskopf
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1980s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1982
                      
                     
                      Philip W. Anderson
                      
                     
                      Yoichiro Nambu
                      
                     
                      Edward Teller
                      
                     
                      Charles H. Townes
                      
                     
                      1983
                      
                     
                      E. Margaret Burbidge
                      
                     
                      Maurice Goldhaber
                      
                     
                      Helmut Landsberg
                      
                     
                      Walter Munk
                      
                     
                      Frederick Reines
                      
                     
                      Bruno B. Rossi
                      
                     
                      J. Robert Schrieffer
                      
                     
                      1986
                      
                     
                      Solomon J. Buchsbaum
                      
                     
                      H. Richard Crane
                      
                     
                      Herman Feshbach
                      
                     
                      Robert Hofstadter
                      
                     
                      Chen-Ning Yang
                      
                     
                      1987
                      
                     
                      Philip Abelson
                      
                     
                      Walter Elsasser
                      
                     
                      Paul C. Lauterbur
                      
                     
                      George Pake
                      
                     
                      James A. Van Allen
                      
                     
                      1988
                      
                     
                      D. Allan Bromley
                      
                     
                      Paul Ching-Wu Chu
                      
                     
                      Walter Kohn
                      
                     
                      Norman Foster Ramsey Jr.
                      
                     
                      Jack Steinberger
                      
                     
                      1989
                      
                     
                      Arnold O. Beckman
                      
                     
                      Eugene Parker
                      
                     
                      Robert Sharp
                      
                     
                      Henry Stommel
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  1990s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      1990
                      
                     
                      Allan M. Cormack
                      
                     
                      Edwin M. McMillan
                      
                     
                      Robert Pound
                      
                     
                      Roger Revelle
                      
                     
                      1991
                      
                     
                      Arthur L. Schawlow
                      
                     
                      Ed Stone
                      
                     
                      Steven Weinberg
                      
                     
                      1992
                      
                     
                      Eugene M. Shoemaker
                      
                     
                      1993
                      
                     
                      Val Fitch
                      
                     
                      Vera Rubin
                      
                     
                      1994
                      
                     
                      Albert Overhauser
                      
                     
                      Frank Press
                      
                     
                      1995
                      
                     
                      Hans Dehmelt
                      
                     
                      Peter Goldreich
                      
                     
                      1996
                      
                     
                      Wallace S. Broecker
                      
                     
                      1997
                      
                     
                      Marshall Rosenbluth
                      
                     
                      Martin Schwarzschild
                      
                     
                      George Wetherill
                      
                     
                      1998
                      
                     
                      Don L. Anderson
                      
                     
                      John N. Bahcall
                      
                     
                      1999
                      
                     
                      James Cronin
                      
                     
                      Leo Kadanoff
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2000s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2000
                      
                     
                      Willis E. Lamb
                      
                     
                      Jeremiah P. Ostriker
                      
                     
                      Gilbert F. White
                      
                     
                      2001
                      
                     
                      Marvin L. Cohen
                      
                     
                      Raymond Davis Jr.
                      
                     
                      Charles Keeling
                      
                     
                      2002
                      
                     
                      Richard Garwin
                      
                     
                      W. Jason Morgan
                      
                     
                      Edward Witten
                      
                     
                      2003
                      
                     
                      G. Brent Dalrymple
                      
                     
                      Riccardo Giacconi
                      
                     
                      2004
                      
                     
                      Robert N. Clayton
                      
                     
                      2005
                      
                     
                      Ralph A. Alpher
                      
                     
                      Lonnie Thompson
                      
                     
                      2006
                      
                     
                      Daniel Kleppner
                      
                     
                      2007
                      
                     
                      Fay Ajzenberg-Selove
                      
                     
                      Charles P. Slichter
                      
                     
                      2008
                      
                     
                      Berni Alder
                      
                     
                      James E. Gunn
                      
                     
                      2009
                      
                     
                      Yakir Aharonov
                      
                     
                      Esther M. Conwell
                      
                     
                      Warren M. Washington
                     
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  2010s
                  
                    
                    
                     
                      2011
                      
                     
                      Sidney Drell
                      
                     
                      Sandra Faber
                      
                     
                      Sylvester James Gates
                      
                     
                      2012
                      
                     
                      Burton Richter
                      
                     
                      Sean C. Solomon
                      
                     
                      2014
                      
                     
                      Shirley Ann Jackson
                     
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Manhattan Project
           
         
         
          
           
            Timeline
           
         
         
          Sites
          
            
            
             Ames 
             Berkeley 
             Chicago 
             Dayton 
             Hanford 
             Inyokern 
             Los Alamos 
             Montreal 
             New York 
             Oak Ridge 
             Salt Wells Pilot Plant 
             Trinity 
             Wendover 
             Heavy water sites
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Administrators
          
            
            
             Vannevar Bush 
             Arthur Compton 
             James B. Conant 
             Priscilla Duffield 
             Thomas Farrell 
             Leslie Groves 
             John Lansdale 
             Ernest Lawrence 
             James Marshall 
             Franklin Matthias 
             Dorothy McKibbin 
             Kenneth Nichols 
             Robert Oppenheimer 
             Deak Parsons 
             William Purnell 
             Frank Spedding 
             Charles Thomas 
             Paul Tibbets 
             Bud Uanna 
             Harold Urey 
             Stafford Warren 
             Ed Westcott 
             Roscoe Wilson
             
           
         
         
          Scientists
          
            
            
             Luis Alvarez 
             Robert Bacher 
             Hans Bethe 
             Aage Bohr 
             Niels Bohr 
             Norris Bradbury 
             James Chadwick 
             John Cockcroft 
             Charles Critchfield 
             Harry Daghlian 
             Enrico Fermi 
             Richard Feynman 
             Val Fitch 
             James Franck 
             Klaus Fuchs 
             Maria Goeppert Mayer 
             George Kistiakowsky 
             George Koval 
             Willard Libby 
             Joseph L. McKibben 
             Edwin McMillan 
             Mark Oliphant 
             Norman Ramsey 
             Isidor Isaac Rabi 
             James Rainwater 
             Bruno Rossi 
             Glenn Seaborg 
             Emilio Segrè 
             Louis Slotin 
             Henry DeWolf Smyth 
             Leo Szilard 
             Edward Teller 
             Stanisław Ulam 
             John von Neumann 
             John Wheeler 
             Eugene Wigner 
             Robert Wilson 
             Leona Woods 
             Chien-Shiung Wu
             
           
         
         
          Operations
          
            
            
             Alsos Mission 
             Bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki 
             Operation Crossroads 
             Operation Peppermint 
             Project Alberta 
             Silverplate 
             509th Composite Group 
             Enola Gay 
             Bockscar 
             The Great Artiste
             
           
         
         
          Weapons
          
            
            
             Fat Man 
             Little Boy 
             Pumpkin bomb 
             Thin Man
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Atomic Energy Act of 1946 
             Bismuth phosphate process 
             British contribution 
             Chicago Pile-1 
             Demon core 
             Einstein–Szilárd letter 
             Franck Report 
             Interim Committee 
             Oppenheimer security hearing 
             Plutonium 
             Quebec Agreement 
             RaLa Experiment 
             S-1 Executive Committee 
             S-50 Project 
             Smyth Report 
             Uranium 
             USS&nbsp;Indianapolis 
             X-10 Graphite Reactor
             
           
         
         
          
           
             Manhattan Project
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         Biography
        
        
         Nuclear technology
        
        
         History of science
        
        
         World War II
        
       
      
      
      
       
        Vannevar Bush at Wikipedia's sister projects:
       
       
        
         Media from Commons
        
        
         Quotations from Wikiquote
        
        
         Texts from Wikisource
        
        
         Data from Wikidata
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Association for Computing Machinery 
             DBLP (computer science) 
             Mathematics Genealogy Project 
             Scopus author
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             National Archives (US) 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vannevar_Bush&amp;oldid=1058871282"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1890 births
       1974 deaths
       20th-century American engineers
       20th-century American inventors
       American electrical engineers
       American futurologists
       American people of English descent
       Burials in Massachusetts
       Fellows of the American Physical Society
       Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
       IEEE Edison Medal recipients
       IEEE Lamme Medal recipients
       Internet pioneers
       Manhattan Project people
       Medal for Merit recipients
       MIT School of Engineering alumni
       MIT School of Engineering faculty
       National Medal of Science laureates
       Office of Science and Technology Policy officials
       People from Chelsea, Massachusetts
       People from Everett, Massachusetts
       Raytheon Company people
       Recipients of the Legion of Honour
       Tufts University School of Engineering alumni
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from September 2018
       Featured articles
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with ACM-DL identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Articles with Scopus identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 25 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Беларуская
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       მარგალური
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Українська
       اردو
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 December 2021, at 02:21&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
