
 
  
   
  Special interest group - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Special interest group 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Special interest groups)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       This article is about technical or social associations. For other uses, see Interest group (disambiguation). For political advocacy groups, see Advocacy group.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that this article be merged into Advocacy group. (Discuss) Proposed since January 2022.
          
        
       
       
      A special interest group (SIG) is a community within a larger organization with a shared interest in advancing a specific area of knowledge, learning or technology where members cooperate to affect or to produce solutions within their particular field, and may communicate, meet, and organize conferences. The term was used in 1961 by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), an academic and professional computer society. SIG was later popularized on CompuServe, an early online service provider, where SIGs were a section of the service devoted to particular interests.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Technical SIGs 
        2 Non-technical SIGs 
          
          2.1 Political Interest Groups 
           
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Technical SIGs 
      The ACM includes many SIGs, some starting as smaller "Special Interest Committees" (SICs) and formed the first group in 1961. ACM supports further subdivision within SIGs for more impromptu informal discussion groups at conferences which are called Birds of a Feather (BoF).  
      
       ACM's Special Interest Groups (SIGs) represent major areas of computing, addressing the interests of technical communities that drive innovation. SIGs offer a wealth of conferences, publications and activities focused on specific computing sub-disciplines. They enable members to share expertise, discovery and best practices.
       
      The Mathematical Association of America has 14 SIGs ranging from the Arts to the Web (for instruction).  
      Non-technical SIGs 
      Organizations that are not technical may also have Special Interest Groups, which are normally focused on a mutual interest or shared characteristic of a subset of members of the organization. An important example for this are trade unions. For identity-based advocacy groups, see identity politics. The Japan Association for Language Teaching (JALT) has several SIGs. Together they organize a Pan-SIG conference each year.  
      Political Interest Groups 
      These interest groups represent interests that support and lobby for areas of special need. For example, the Sierra Club focuses on protecting the environment as well as the wild places on earth. They also focus on the education of people on preservation of the environment. Groups like this advocate for their special interests and form a base of support that will assist them in moving along their public issue. These political "entrepreneurs" are the classic view of the policy maker. And also much needed by these special interest groups is the patron. These patrons provide capital as well as support for the interest groups. The cause has to be one that many support and can get behind due to the quantity of other causes that lobby their patrons for support. Many of these dominant groups have sub-supporting groups that lobby for more specific issues, but assist in the overall cause.  
      See also 
      
       Birds of a feather (computing) 
       Interest versus express advocacy 
       Linux User Group 
       Lobbying 
       Organizational structure
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Sig conference community". historywiki.acm.org.  
        ^ CompuServe. Trs-80.org (1980-07-01). Retrieved on 2014-06-16.  
        ^ SIGs. Gsbrown.org (2010-04-08). Retrieved on 2014-06-16.  
        ^ Modems - The Secret Guide to Computers. Computercraft.com. Retrieved on 2014-06-16.  
        ^ 
          "Birds-of-a-feather FAQ". SC17. 14 October 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Special Interest Groups". www.acm.org.  
        ^  
          "SIGMAA: Special Interest Groups of the MAA". Mathematical Association of America. 2008-08-22. Retrieved 2009-01-19.  
        ^ 
          "History of SIGMAAs | Mathematical Association of America". www.maa.org.  
        ^ The Community Discovered Special Interest Groups, groups for specific interests within an educational organization.  
        ^ Friends General Conference Summer Gathering Adult Young Friends Program, a young adult-focused SIG in a Quaker organization.  
       
       
      External links 
      
       ACM: Special Interest Groups 
       MAA: Special Interest Groups
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special_interest_group&amp;oldid=1065162408"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Types of organization
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles to be merged from January 2022
       All articles to be merged
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       فارسی
       Français
       Nederlands
       日本語
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 12 January 2022, at 04:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
