
 
  
   
  Dissemination - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Dissemination 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
       
       
         
          
         Look up dissemination in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
      
       "Miliary" redirects here. For other uses, see Disseminated disease.
       
      To disseminate (from lat. disseminare "scattering seeds"), in the field of communication, means to broadcast a message to the public without direct feedback from the audience.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Meaning 
        2 Usage 
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        
       
      Meaning 
      Dissemination takes on the theory of the traditional view of communication, which involves a sender and receiver. The traditional communication view point is broken down into a sender sending information, and receiver collecting the information processing it and sending information back, like a telephone line. 
      With dissemination, only half of this communication model theory is applied. The information is sent out and received, but no reply is given. The message carrier sends out information, not to one individual, but many in a broadcasting system. An example of this transmission of information is in fields of advertising, public announcements and speeches. Another way to look at dissemination is that of which it derives from the Latin roots, the scattering of seeds. These seeds are metaphors for voice or words: to spread voice, words, and opinion to an audience. 
      In a scientific context, dissemination is defined as making projects results available to the scientific community, policy makers and industry – using scientific language prioritizing accuracy. In terms of content, it covers the results of the research project, happens only when results are available and targets a specialist audience in order to enable take-up and use of results. Dissemination of research findings is becoming more important for scientists, since journals start to encourage them to invest extra effort in reaching wider audiences.   
      Usage 
      Dissemination can be powerful when adding rhetoric or other forms of persuasiveness to the speech. According to John Durham Peters, who wrote Communication as Dissemination, "making a public offering is perhaps the most basic of all communicative acts, but once the seeds are cast, their harvest is never assured... The metaphor of dissemination points to the contingency of all words and deeds, their uncertain consequences, and their governance by probabilities rather than certainties." In other words, dissemination of words to multiple people can take on multiple meanings to each individual depending on the experience, the attitude, the knowledge, the race or even the gender of the listener. All of these aspects can distort the message that the sender is disseminating towards the public. Depending on the circumstances, the surroundings and the environment the listener is receiving this message in can also have an effect on the outcome of the meaning of the message received. This interference is also known as "noise" in the traditional model of communication theory. Noise can distort the original meaning of a message. 
      Furthermore, John Durham Peters explains that "broadcasting information to an open ended destination is a feature of all speech. The metaphor of dissemination directs our attention to those vast continents of signification that are not directly interactive." Dissemination basically sends information to an audience, without direct contact to the receiver, and without a direct response or clarification method that a conversation or dialogue would have.  
      Dissemination plays a crucial role especially in public-funded research, where society, also representing tax payers funding the research, is asking to see the results of the projects being published and shared with the scientific community. Therefore, public authorities ask organizations executing the research projects to develop and implement a dissemination plan that contributes to the publication of research activities and results. Thus, the funds invested in research flows back to society in terms of knowledge as the publications have to be openly accessible according to the grant agreement. 
      In policy development, mainstreaming is seen as going a step further than dissemination, in that it tries to embed change in policy and practice, rather than just publishing information.  
      See also 
      
       Jacques Derrida
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ "What is the difference between communication and dissemination?". EU Funds. EU Funds. Retrieved 20 September 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Social m edia g uide for EU funded R&amp;I projects" (PDF). European Commission. European Commission. Retrieved 12 June 2018.  
        ^ 
          "Your research is published - what now? 7 simple tips to communicate it effectively | Labs Explorer". www.labsexplorer.com. Retrieved 2020-06-09.  
        ^ a b "Communication as... Perspectives Theory." Shepherd, Gregory J., John, Jefferey St., Striphas, Ted (eds.) (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 2006), 211-22. Peters, John Durham. "Communication as Dissemination".  
        ^ http://www.dictionary.reference.com/browse/dissemination  
        ^ 
          "What makes a good dissemination plan in Horizon Europe?". EU Funds. EU Funds simply explained. Retrieved 20 September 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Open access &amp; Data management". FUNDING &amp; TENDERS PORTAL. European Commission. Retrieved 11 July 2019.  
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dissemination&amp;oldid=1045387287"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Communication
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Қазақша
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 20 September 2021, at 09:38&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
