
 
  
   
  Association for Information Science and Technology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Association for Information Science and Technology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from American Society for Information Science and Technology)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (January 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
        
      
       Professional membership association
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         1717 and 1719 S Street, N.W. – former headquarters of the American Documentation Institute
        
       
       
      
      
       
        Association for Information Science and Technology
       
       
        
         
        
        
         Abbreviation
         ASIS&amp;T
        
        
         Formation
         13&nbsp;March 1937; 84 years ago&nbsp;(1937-03-13)
        
        
         Type
         NGO, professional association
        
        
         Location
         
          
           
            Silver Spring, Maryland
           
          
        
        
         
          
           Membership 
          
         2,000
        
        
         
          
           Executive director
          
         Lydia Middleton
        
        
         
          
           Main organ
          
         Board of directors
        
        
         Website
         www.asist.org
        
       
       
      The Association for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&amp;T) is a nonprofit membership organization for information professionals that sponsors an annual conference as well as several serial publications, including the Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology (JAsIST). The organization provides administration and communications support for its various divisions, known as special-interest groups or SIGs; provides administration for geographically defined chapters; connects job seekers with potential employers; and provides organizational support for continuing education programs for information professionals. 
      Founded as the American Documentation Institute (ADI) in 1937, the group became the American Society for Information Science (ASIS) in 1968 to reflect the organization's interest in "all aspects of the information transfer process" such as, "designing, managing and using information systems and technology." Updating its name in 2000, the American Society for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&amp;T) signaled the widespread prevalence and increasing centrality of online databases and similar technical aspects of the information profession. In 2013 the organization adopted its current name, while retaining the ASIS&amp;T acronym, to better reflect its international membership and the increasingly global nature of our information society. Today the organization comprises professionals from various fields including engineering, linguistics, librarianship, education, chemistry, computer science, and medicine. Members share "a common interest in improving the ways society stores, retrieves, analyzes, manages, archives and disseminates information ".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Mission 
        3 Vision 
        4 Membership 
        5 Publications 
          
          5.1 JASIS / JASIST 
           
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        9 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Watson Davis formed the Documentation Institute in 1935, which became the American Documentation Institute (ADI) on 13 March 1937 with the collaboration of Atherton Seidell and others. The organization was first concerned with microfilm and its role as a vehicle for the dissemination of information. ADI worked toward the development of microfilm readers and cameras. Their first microfilm laboratories were located in the U.S.Department of Agriculture Library in Washington, DC and the Institute distributed materials through the newly created Bibliofilm Service. 
      ADI established the Auxiliary Publication Program, which during its 30-year history released nearly 10,000 documents covering a wide range of subjects. The program enabled authors in the fields of physical, natural, social, historical and information sciences to publish and distribute research papers that were either too long, typographically complex or expensive to be published in journals using existing technology. In 1954, the Photoduplication Service at the Library of Congress took over the operation and became the source point for distributing ADI materials and in 2009 this material found its home in the Library's Technical Reports and Standards Unit. 
      ADI bylaws were amended in 1952 to allow individuals to become members due to the number of people that were engaged in the development of new principles and techniques. The goal was to make ADI a group that was concerned with all elements and problems of information science not just libraries. During this time there were increased interests and developments of automatic devices for searching, storage and retrieval. 
      During the 1970s many institutions were making the move from batch processing to online modes, from mainframe computers to more modern computers. With the advancement of technology the traditional boundaries began to fade and library schools started to add "information" in the titles of their programs. ASIS sponsored a bicentennial conference which focused on the role of information in the country's development. The group also participated in the planning and implementation of the White House Conference on Library and Information Services. 
      The popularity of personal computers in the 1980s marks a shift that allows individuals to access large databases, such as Grateful Med at the National Library of Medicine, and user-oriented services such as Dialog and Compuserve from their homes. ASIS created groups on office information, personal computers, international information issues and rural information services in response to the changing environment. Eventually other groups were created, such as: non-print media, social sciences, energy and the environment, and community information systems. ASIS also added its first chapters outside North America. 
      Today ASIS&amp;T is at the forefront of examining the technical bases, social consequences, and theoretical understanding of our information society. They also study the effects of widespread use of databases in government, industry, and education, and the development of information environments on the Internet and World Wide Web.  
      Mission 
      In a world where "information is of central importance to personal, social, political, and economic progress", ASIS&amp;T seeks to advance the information sciences and information technology by providing focus, opportunity, and support to information professionals and information organizations. ASIS&amp;T seeks to advance knowledge "about information, its creation, properties, and use" as well as increase "public awareness of the information sciences and technologies and their benefits to society."  
      Vision 
      To establish an information professionalism in the world by: Advancing knowledge about information; Providing analysis of ideas; Valuing theory, research, applications, and service; Nurturing new perspectives, interests, and ideas; Increasing public awareness of the information sciences and technologies and their benefits to society."  
      Membership 
      Originally membership was based on representatives nominated by scientific societies, professional associations, foundations, and government agencies. Changes made to the bylaws in 1952 opened the organization to any individual with interest in the dissemination of information. Today, fee-based memberships can be either individual or institutional, with no formal requirements to join as an individual. Similar to most organizations of its kind, ASIS&amp;T offers benefits to its members in the form of subscriptions to publications, access to job assistance services (JobLine); and discounts to ASIS&amp;T-sponsored events.  
      Publications 
      In 1966, ADI began publication of the Annual Review of Information Science and Technology. Its successor organizations continued publishing the annual review under that title until 2011.  
      JASIS / JASIST 
      
      
       Main article: Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology
       
      ADI decided in 1950 to create a journal modeled after the defunct Journal of Documentary Reproduction, which had been published by the American Library Association from 1938 to 1942. ADI published the journal American Documentation. from 1950 until 1968, when ADI changed its name as an organization and renamed American Documentation as the Journal of the American Society for Information Science (JASIS). With the society's subsequent name changes the journal title followed suit, becoming the Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology (JASIST) in 2000, and then the Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology in 2014.  
      See also 
      
       Association of Information Technology Professionals (AITP) 
       Society of Information Technology Management (SOCITM), related group based in the UK
       
      
       
        Related governmental agencies
        
        
        
         National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) 
         Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)
        
       
       
      
       Documentation science 
       Library Science 
       Information Science
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "American Documentation Institute Reports". Library of Congress. Retrieved 11 December 2012.  
         ^ a b c d e f g 
           "About ASIS&amp;T". Archived from the original on 25 July 2011. Retrieved 22 June 2011.  
         ^ a b c 
           "History of ASIS&amp;T". Archived from the original on 25 July 2011. Retrieved 22 June 2011.  
         ^ Schultz, Claire K. &amp; Garwig, Paul L. (1969). History of the American Documentation Institute-A Sketch. American Documentation, 20(2), 152-160.  
         ^ "American Documentation Institute Reports". Library of Congress, "Technical Reports and Standards Unit".  
         ^ "ADI Collection"  
         ^ "Technical Reports and Standards Unit".  
         ^ a b c 
           "ASIS&amp;T Mission &amp; Vision". Archived from the original on 25 July 2011. Retrieved 22 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "ARIST to Cease Publication". Retrieved 10 December 2011.  
         ^ 
           "ASIS&amp;T Publications". Archived from the original on 5 October 2011. Retrieved 22 June 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Journal of Documentary Reproduction". Bulletin of the Medical Library Association. 26 (4): 270. 1938. PMC&nbsp;233737.  
         ^ 
           "THE LANDSCAPE OF INFORMATION SCIENCE: THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AT 62". Retrieved 10 December 2012.  
         ^ Tate, V. (1950). Introducing American Documentation, a quarterly review of ideas, techniques, problems, and achievements in documentation. American Documentation, 1(1), 3-6.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       From documentation to information science: The beginnings and early development of the American Documentation Institute by Irene Frakas Conn, Greenwood Press, Westport, CT (1990). xiii+ 229 pp., 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-313-25505-9. 
       Farkas-Conn, Irene S. (1990). From Documentation to Information Science. The Beginnings and Early Development of the American Documentation Institute – American Society for information Science. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
       
      External links 
      
       Official website  
       ASIS&amp;T Special Interest Groups (SIGs)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
              
               2 
               3
               
             Australia 
             Israel 
             Poland 
             Sweden
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Association_for_Information_Science_and_Technology&amp;oldid=1067007580"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Professional associations based in the United States
       1937 establishments in the United States
       Library-related professional associations
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles lacking reliable references from January 2011
       All articles lacking reliable references
       Use dmy dates from September 2021
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Pages using infobox organization with motto or pledge
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 06:42&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
