
 
  
   
  United States National Library of Medicine - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   United States National Library of Medicine 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       World's largest medical library
       
      
      
       
        
         United StatesNational Library of Medicine
        
        
         
        
        
         
          
           Library in 1999
          
        
        
         Country
         United States
        
        
         Type
         Medical library
        
        
         Established
         1836; 186&nbsp;years ago&nbsp;(1836)(as the Library of the Office of the Surgeon General of the Army)
        
        
         Reference to legal mandate
         Public Law 941 – August 3, 1956, an amendment to Title III of the Public Health Service Act
        
        
         Location
         Bethesda, Maryland
        
        
         Coordinates
         38°59′45″N 77°05′56″W﻿ / ﻿38.995951°N 77.098832°W﻿ / 38.995951; -77.098832Coordinates: 
            38°59′45″N 77°05′56″W﻿ / ﻿38.995951°N 77.098832°W﻿ / 38.995951; -77.098832
        
        
         Branch of
         National Institutes of Health
        
        
         Collection
        
        
         Items collected
         books, journals, manuscripts, images, and multimedia; genomic, chemical, toxicological, and environmental data; drug information; clinical trials data; health data standards; software; and consumer health information
        
        
         Size
         27.8&nbsp;million (2015)
        
        
         Criteria for collection
         Acquiring, organizing, and preserving the world's scholarly biomedical literature
        
        
         Access and use
        
        
         Access requirements
         Open to the public
        
        
         Circulation
         309,817 (2015)
        
        
         Other information
        
        
         Budget
         US$341,119,000
        
        
         Director
         Patricia Flatley Brennan, RN&nbsp;PhD
        
        
         Staff
         1,741
        
        
         Website
         nlm.nih.gov
        
        
         Map
        
        
         
        
       
       
      The United States National Library of Medicine (NLM), operated by the United States federal government, is the world's largest medical library. 
      Located in Bethesda, Maryland, the NLM is an institute within the National Institutes of Health. Its collections include more than seven million books, journals, technical reports, manuscripts, microfilms, photographs, and images on medicine and related sciences, including some of the world's oldest and rarest works. 
      The current director of the NLM is Patricia Flatley Brennan.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Publications and informational resources 
        2 Toxicology and environmental health 
        3 Radiation exposure 
        4 Extramural division 
        5 National Center for Biotechnology Information division 
        6 History 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Publications and informational resources 
      Since 1879, the National Library of Medicine has published the Index Medicus, a monthly guide to articles, in nearly five thousand selected journals. The last issue of Index Medicus was printed in December 2004, but this information is offered in the freely accessible PubMed, among the more than fifteen million MEDLINE journal article references and abstracts going back to the 1960s and 1.5 million references going back to the 1950s. 
      The National Library of Medicine runs the National Center for Biotechnology Information, which houses biological databases (PubMed among them) that are freely accessible on the Internet through the Entrez search engine  and Lister Hill National Center For Biomedical Communications. As the United States National Release Center for SNOMED CT, NLM provides SNOMED CT data and resources to licensees of the NLM UMLS Metathesaurus. NLM maintains ClinicalTrials.gov registry for human interventional and observational studies.  
      Toxicology and environmental health 
      The Toxicology and Environmental Health Program was established at the National Library of Medicine in 1967 and is charged with developing computer databases compiled from the medical literature and from the files of governmental and nongovernmental organizations. The program has implemented several information systems for chemical emergency response and public education, such as the Toxicology Data Network, TOXMAP, Tox Town, Wireless Information System for Emergency Responders, Toxmystery, and the Household Products Database. These resources are accessible without charge on the internet.  
      Radiation exposure 
      The United States National Library of Medicine Radiation Emergency Management System provides:  
      
       Guidance for health care providers, primarily physicians, about clinical diagnosis and treatment of radiation injury during radiological and nuclear emergencies 
       Just-in-time, evidence-based, usable information with sufficient background and context to make complex issues understandable to those without formal radiation medicine expertise 
       Web-based information that may be downloaded in advance, so that it would be available during an emergency if the Internet were not accessible
       
      Radiation Emergency Management System is produced by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, Office of Planning and Emergency Operations, in cooperation with the National Library of Medicine, Division of Specialized Information Services, with subject matter experts from the National Cancer Institute, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and many U.S. and international consultants.  
      Extramural division 
      The Extramural Division provides grants to support research in medical information science and to support planning and development of computer and communications systems in medical institutions. Research, publications, and exhibitions on the history of medicine and the life sciences also are supported by the History of Medicine Division. In April 2008 the current exhibition Against the Odds: Making a Difference in Global Health was launched.  
      National Center for Biotechnology Information division 
      National Center for Biotechnology Information is an intramural division within National Library of Medicine that creates public databases in molecular biology, conducts research in computational biology, develops software tools for analyzing molecular and genomic data, and disseminates biomedical information, all for the better understanding of processes affecting human health and disease.  
      History 
      
      
       For details of the pre-1956 history of the Library, see Library of the Surgeon General's Office.
       
      The precursor of the National Library of Medicine, established in 1836, was the Library of the Surgeon General's Office, a part of the office of the Surgeon General of the United States Army. The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and its Medical Museum was founded in 1862 as the Army Medical Museum. Throughout their history the Library of the Surgeon General's Office and the Army Medical Museum often shared quarters. From 1866 to 1887, they were housed in Ford's Theatre after production there was stopped, following the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln. 
      In 1956, the library collection was transferred from the control of the U.S. Department of Defense to the Public Health Service of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and renamed the National Library of Medicine, through the instrumentality of Frank Bradway Rogers, who was the director from 1956 to 1963. The library moved to its current quarters in Bethesda, Maryland, on the campus of the National Institutes of Health, in 1962.  
      See also 
      
       JournalReview.org 
       National Library of Medicine classification system 
       PubMed
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "A Brief History of NLM". National Library of Medicine. Retrieved September 29, 2016.  
         ^ "Our Milestones. Archived 2013-02-16 at the Wayback Machine National Library of Medicine. Retrieved September 29, 2016.  
         ^ "H.R. 3020 – Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016". 114th Congress. 2015.  
         ^ a b "National Library of Medicine Welcomes New Director Dr. Patricia Flatley Brennan". National Library of Medicine. August 15, 2016.  
         ^ DeBakey ME (1991). "The National Library of Medicine. Evolution of a premier information center". JAMA. 266 (9): 1252–58. doi:10.1001/jama.266.9.1252. PMID&nbsp;1870251.  
         ^ 
           "PubMed". United States National Library of Medicine. Retrieved May 28, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "NCBI Educational Resources". United States National Library of Medicine. Retrieved May 28, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "LHNCBC". Retrieved 1 August 2018.  
         ^ 
           "SNOMED CT". Retrieved 19 July 2018.  
         ^ "Toxicology and Environmental Health Program". National Library of Medicine. Retrieved July 11, 2007.  
         ^ a b "Radiation Emergency Management System". National Library of Medicine.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Miles, Wyndham D. (1992). A History of the National Library of Medicine: The Nation's Treasury of Medical Knowledge. U.S. Government Printing Office. p.&nbsp;531. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-16-002644-7. NLM 8218545. 
       
        Reznick, Jeffrey; Koyle, Ken (2017). US National Library of Medicine (PDF). Charleston, South Carolina: Arcadia Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4671-2608-3. LCCN&nbsp;2017931439. NLM 101706419. 
       
        Schullian, Dorothy; Rogers, Frank (January 1958). "The National Library of Medicine. I". The Library Quarterly: Information, Community, Policy. 28 (1): 1–17. doi:10.1086/618482. JSTOR&nbsp;4304714. PMID&nbsp;19938388. NLM 0135203. 
       
        Schullian, Dorothy; Rogers, Frank (April 1958). "The National Library of Medicine. II". The Library Quarterly: Information, Community, Policy. 28 (2): 95–121. doi:10.1086/618521. JSTOR&nbsp;4304753. PMID&nbsp;19938389. NLM 0135203. 
       
        Past, present, and future of biomedical information. Bethesda, Maryland: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, National Library of Medicine. 1987. NLM 8708723. Retrieved October 16, 2017.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to United States National Library of Medicine.
         
       
       
      
       Official website  
       A Brief History of NLM 
       Clinical Trials, research information 
       HIV Info, treatment and clinical trial information 
       History of Medicine Division: Finding Aids, a multi-institutional discovery service
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
             United States national libraries
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Agriculture:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Agricultural Library 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Congress:&nbsp;&nbsp;Library of Congress 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Transportation:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Transportation Library 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Health and Human Services /&nbsp;National Institutes of Health:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Library of Medicine 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Education:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Library of Education
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
              Other related libraries and services
              
             
              Federal Depository Library Program
              
             
              National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)
              
             
              Presidential library system
              
             
              List of U.S. state libraries and archives
             
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            U.S. National Institutes of Health (list)
           
         
         
          Institutes
          
            
            
             National Cancer Institute 
             National Eye Institute 
             National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute 
             National Human Genome Research Institute 
             National Institute on Aging 
             National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism 
             National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases 
             National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases 
             National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering 
             National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
             National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders 
             National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research 
             National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
             National Institute on Drug Abuse 
             National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences 
             National Institute of General Medical Sciences 
             National Institute of Mental Health 
             National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities 
             National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
             National Institute of Nursing Research 
             National Library of Medicine
             
           
         
         
          Centers
          
            
            
             Center for Information Technology 
             Center for Scientific Review 
             John E. Fogarty International Center 
             National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health 
             National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences 
             Vaccine Research Center 
             National Institutes of Health Clinical Center
             
           
         
         
          Programs
          
            
            
             Visible Human Project 
             National Diabetes Education Program
             
           
         
         
          Directors
          
            
            
             Joseph J. Kinyoun 
             Milton J. Rosenau 
             John F. Anderson 
             George W. McCoy 
             Lewis R. Thompson 
             Rolla Dyer 
             William H. Sebrell, Jr 
             James Augustine Shannon 
             Robert Q. Marston 
             Robert Stone 
             Donald S. Fredrickson 
             James B. Wyngaarden 
             Bernadine Healy 
             Harold E. Varmus 
             Elias Zerhouni 
             Francis Collins 
             Lawrence A. Tabak
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             NIH Record 
             United States Public Health Service 
             Division of Intramural Research 
             National Institutes of Health campus 
             National Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award 
             NIH Public Access Policy 
             National Center for Research Resources 
             National Institutes of Health Police 
             Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Italics indicate acting officeholders
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Korea 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RISM (France) 
              
               1
               
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_National_Library_of_Medicine&amp;oldid=1067548732"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       United States National Library of Medicine
       Medical libraries
       National libraries in the United States
       National Institutes of Health
       Libraries in Maryland
       Bibliographic database providers
       Research libraries
       Buildings and structures in Bethesda, Maryland
       Buildings of the United States government
       Libraries established in 1836
       1830s establishments in Washington, D.C.
       1836 establishments in the United States
       Library buildings completed in 1962
       1962 establishments in Maryland
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Coordinates on Wikidata
       Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RISM identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       Pages using the Kartographer extension
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Беларуская
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Кыргызча
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       தமிழ்
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Winaray
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 02:15&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
