
 
  
   
  Document classification - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Document classification 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Text categorisation)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Process of categorizing documents
       
      Document classification or document categorization is a problem in library science, information science and computer science. The task is to assign a document to one or more classes or categories. This may be done "manually" (or "intellectually") or algorithmically. The intellectual classification of documents has mostly been the province of library science, while the algorithmic classification of documents is mainly in information science and computer science. The problems are overlapping, however, and there is therefore interdisciplinary research on document classification. 
      The documents to be classified may be texts, images, music, etc. Each kind of document possesses its special classification problems. When not otherwise specified, text classification is implied. 
      Documents may be classified according to their subjects or according to other attributes (such as document type, author, printing year etc.). In the rest of this article only subject classification is considered. There are two main philosophies of subject classification of documents: the content-based approach and the request-based approach.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 "Content-based" versus "request-based" classification 
        2 Classification versus indexing 
        3 Automatic document classification (ADC) 
          
          3.1 Techniques 
           
        4 Applications 
        5 See also 
        6 Further reading 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      "Content-based" versus "request-based" classification 
      Content-based classification is classification in which the weight given to particular subjects in a document determines the class to which the document is assigned. It is, for example, a common rule for classification in libraries, that at least 20% of the content of a book should be about the class to which the book is assigned. In automatic classification it could be the number of times given words appears in a document. 
      Request-oriented classification (or -indexing) is classification in which the anticipated request from users is influencing how documents are being classified. The classifier asks themself: “Under which descriptors should this entity be found?” and “think of all the possible queries and decide for which ones the entity at hand is relevant” (Soergel, 1985, p.&nbsp;230). 
      Request-oriented classification may be classification that is targeted towards a particular audience or user group. For example, a library or a database for feminist studies may classify/index documents differently when compared to a historical library. It is probably better, however, to understand request-oriented classification as policy-based classification: The classification is done according to some ideals and reflects the purpose of the library or database doing the classification. In this way it is not necessarily a kind of classification or indexing based on user studies. Only if empirical data about use or users are applied should request-oriented classification be regarded as a user-based approach.  
      Classification versus indexing 
      Sometimes a distinction is made between assigning documents to classes ("classification") versus assigning subjects to documents ("subject indexing") but as Frederick Wilfrid Lancaster has argued, this distinction is not fruitful. "These terminological distinctions,” he writes, “are quite meaningless and only serve to cause confusion” (Lancaster, 2003, p.&nbsp;21). The view that this distinction is purely superficial is also supported by the fact that a classification system may be transformed into a thesaurus and vice versa (cf., Aitchison, 1986, 2004; Broughton, 2008; Riesthuis &amp; Bliedung, 1991). Therefore, the act of labeling a document (say by assigning a term from a controlled vocabulary to a document) is at the same time to assign that document to the class of documents indexed by that term (all documents indexed or classified as X belong to the same class of documents). In other words, labeling a document is the same as assigning it to the class of documents indexed under that label.  
      Automatic document classification (ADC) 
      Automatic document classification tasks can be divided into three sorts: supervised document classification where some external mechanism (such as human feedback) provides information on the correct classification for documents, unsupervised document classification (also known as document clustering), where the classification must be done entirely without reference to external information, and semi-supervised document classification, where parts of the documents are labeled by the external mechanism. There are several software products under various license models available.  
      Techniques 
      Automatic document classification techniques include:  
      
       Expectation maximization (EM) 
       Naive Bayes classifier 
       tf–idf 
       Instantaneously trained neural networks 
       Latent semantic indexing 
       Support vector machines (SVM) 
       Artificial neural network 
       K-nearest neighbour algorithms 
       Decision trees such as ID3 or C4.5 
       Concept Mining 
       Rough set-based classifier 
       Soft set-based classifier 
       Multiple-instance learning 
       Natural language processing approaches
       
      Applications 
      Classification techniques have been applied to  
      
       spam filtering, a process which tries to discern E-mail spam messages from legitimate emails 
       email routing, sending an email sent to a general address to a specific address or mailbox depending on topic 
       language identification, automatically determining the language of a text 
       genre classification, automatically determining the genre of a text 
       readability assessment, automatically determining the degree of readability of a text, either to find suitable materials for different age groups or reader types or as part of a larger text simplification system 
       sentiment analysis, determining the attitude of a speaker or a writer with respect to some topic or the overall contextual polarity of a document. 
       health-related classification using social media in public health surveillance  
       article triage, selecting articles that are relevant for manual literature curation, for example as is being done as the first step to generate manually curated annotation databases in biology  
       humor detection, automatically determining if the given short text should be taken seriously or not, with usecases in chatbots and personal assistants. 
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Categorization 
        Classification (disambiguation) 
        Compound term processing 
        Concept-based image indexing 
        Content-based image retrieval 
        Decimal section numbering 
        Document 
        Document retrieval 
        Document clustering 
        Information retrieval 
        Knowledge organization 
        Knowledge Organization System 
        Library classification 
        Machine learning 
        Native Language Identification 
        String metrics 
        Subject (documents) 
        Subject indexing 
        Supervised learning, unsupervised learning 
        Text mining, web mining, concept mining
        
       
      Further reading 
      
       Fabrizio Sebastiani. Machine learning in automated text categorization. ACM Computing Surveys, 34(1):1–47, 2002. 
       Stefan Büttcher, Charles L. A. Clarke, and Gordon V. Cormack. Information Retrieval: Implementing and Evaluating Search Engines Archived 2020-10-05 at the Wayback Machine. MIT Press, 2010.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Library of Congress (2008). The subject headings manual. Washington, DC.: Library of Congress, Policy and Standards Division. (Sheet H 180: "Assign headings only for topics that comprise at least 20% of the work.")  
         ^ Soergel, Dagobert (1985). Organizing information: Principles of data base and retrieval systems. Orlando, FL: Academic Press.  
         ^ Lancaster, F. W. (2003). Indexing and abstracting in theory and practice. Library Association, London.  
         ^ Aitchison, J. (1986). "A classification as a source for thesaurus: The Bibliographic Classification of H. E. Bliss as a source of thesaurus terms and structure." Journal of Documentation, Vol. 42 No. 3, pp. 160-181.  
         ^ Aitchison, J. (2004). "Thesauri from BC2: Problems and possibilities revealed in an experimental thesaurus derived from the Bliss Music schedule." Bliss Classification Bulletin, Vol. 46, pp. 20-26.  
         ^ Broughton, V. (2008). "A faceted classification as the basis ofsdfhhdhgdgfba faceted terminology: Conversion of a classified structure to thesaurus format in the Bliss Bibliographic Classification (2nd Ed.).]" Axiomathes, Vol. 18 No.2, pp. 193-210.  
         ^ Riesthuis, G. J. A., &amp; Bliedung, St. (1991). "Thesaurification of the UDC." Tools for knowledge organization and the human interface, Vol. 2, pp. 109-117. Index Verlag, Frankfurt.  
         ^  Rossi, R. G., Lopes, A. d. A., and Rezende, S. O. (2016). Optimization and label propagation in bipartite heterogeneous networks to improve transductive classification of texts. Information Processing &amp; Management, 52(2):217–257.  
         ^ "An Interactive Automatic Document Classification Prototype" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-11-15. Retrieved 2017-11-14.  
         ^ Interactive Automatic Document Classification Prototype Archived April 24, 2015, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Document Classification - Artsyl  
         ^ ABBYY FineReader Engine 11 for Windows  
         ^ Classifier - Antidot  
         ^ 
           "3 Document Classification Methods for Tough Projects". www.bisok.com. Retrieved 2021-08-04.  
         ^ Stephan Busemann, Sven Schmeier and Roman G. Arens (2000). Message classification in the call center. In Sergei Nirenburg, Douglas Appelt, Fabio Ciravegna and Robert Dale, eds., Proc. 6th Applied Natural Language Processing Conf. (ANLP'00), pp. 158-165, ACL.  
         ^ 
           Santini, Marina; Rosso, Mark (2008), Testing a Genre-Enabled Application: A Preliminary Assessment (PDF), BCS IRSG Symposium: Future Directions in Information Access, London, UK, pp.&nbsp;54–63, archived from the original (PDF) on 2019-11-15, retrieved 2011-10-21  
         ^ X. Dai, M. Bikdash and B. Meyer, "From social media to public health surveillance: Word embedding based clustering method for twitter classification," SoutheastCon 2017, Charlotte, NC, 2017, pp. 1-7. doi:10.1109/SECON.2017.7925400  
         ^ 
           Krallinger, M; Leitner, F; Rodriguez-Penagos, C; Valencia, A (2008). "Overview of the protein-protein interaction annotation extraction task of Bio Creative II". Genome Biology. 9 Suppl 2: S4. doi:10.1186/gb-2008-9-s2-s4. PMC&nbsp;2559988. PMID&nbsp;18834495.  
         ^ Annamoradnejad, I. (2020). Colbert: Using bert sentence embedding for humor detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.12765.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Introduction to document classification 
       Bibliography on Automated Text Categorization 
       Bibliography on Query Classification 
       Text Classification analysis page 
       Learning to Classify Text - Chap. 6 of the book Natural Language Processing with Python (available online) 
       TechTC - Technion Repository of Text Categorization Datasets 
       David D. Lewis's Datasets 
       BioCreative III ACT (article classification task) dataset
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Document_classification&amp;oldid=1069116600"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Natural language processing
       Knowledge representation
       Data mining
       Machine learning
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1: long volume value
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Русский
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 January 2022, at 18:19&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
