
 
  
   
  Website - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Website 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       This article is about websites in general. For the Internet domain .website, see List of Internet top-level domains.
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with WebCite.
       
        
      
       Set of related web pages served from a single web domain
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The usap.gov website
        
       
       
      A website (also written as web site) is a collection of web pages and related content that is identified by a common domain name and published on at least one web server. Notable examples are wikipedia.org, google.com, and amazon.com. 
      All publicly accessible websites collectively constitute the World Wide Web. There are also private websites that can only be accessed on a private network, such as a company's internal website for its employees. 
      Websites are typically dedicated to a particular topic or purpose, such as news, education, commerce, entertainment, or social networking. Hyperlinking between web pages guides the navigation of the site, which often starts with a home page. 
      Users can access websites on a range of devices, including desktops, laptops, tablets, and smartphones. The app used on these devices is called a web browser.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Overview 
        3 Static website 
        4 Dynamic website 
        5 Multimedia and interactive content 
        6 Types 
        7 Internet Users 
        8 See also 
        9 References 
        10 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of the World Wide Web
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The nasa.gov home page in 2015
        
       
       
      The World Wide Web (WWW) was created in 1989 by the British CERN physicist Tim Berners-Lee. On 30 April 1993, CERN announced that the World Wide Web would be free to use for anyone, contributing to the immense growth of the Web. Before the introduction of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), other protocols such as File Transfer Protocol and the gopher protocol were used to retrieve individual files from a server. These protocols offer a simple directory structure which the user navigates and where they choose files to download. Documents were most often presented as plain text files without formatting or were encoded in word processor formats.  
      Overview 
      Websites can be used in various fashions: a personal website, a corporate website for a company, a government website, an organization website, etc. Websites can be the work of an individual, a business or other organization, and are typically dedicated to a particular topic or purpose. Any website can contain a hyperlink to any other website, so the distinction between individual sites, as perceived by the user, can be blurred. 
      Some websites require user registration or subscription to access content. Examples of subscription websites include many business sites, news websites, academic journal websites, gaming websites, file-sharing websites, message boards, web-based email, social networking websites, websites providing real-time stock market data, as well as sites providing various other services. 
      While "web site" was the original spelling (sometimes capitalized "Web site", since "Web" is a proper noun when referring to the World Wide Web), this variant has become rarely used, and "website" has become the standard spelling. All major style guides, such as The Chicago Manual of Style and the AP Stylebook, have reflected this change.  
      Static website 
      
      
       Main article: Static web page
       
      A static website is one that has web pages stored on the server in the format that is sent to a client web browser. It is primarily coded in Hypertext Markup Language (HTML); Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) are used to control appearance beyond basic HTML. Images are commonly used to create the desired appearance and as part of the main content. Audio or video might also be considered "static" content if it plays automatically or is generally non-interactive. This type of website usually displays the same information to all visitors. Similar to handing out a printed brochure to customers or clients, a static website will generally provide consistent, standard information for an extended period of time. Although the website owner may make updates periodically, it is a manual process to edit the text, photos, and other content and may require basic website design skills and software. Simple forms or marketing examples of websites, such as classic website, a five-page website or a brochure website are often static websites, because they present pre-defined, static information to the user. This may include information about a company and its products and services through text, photos, animations, audio/video, and navigation menus. 
      Static websites may still use server side includes (SSI) as an editing convenience, such as sharing a common menu bar across many pages. As the site's behavior to the reader is still static, this is not considered a dynamic site.  
      Dynamic website 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Server-side programming language usage in 2016.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main articles: Dynamic web page, Web application, and Progressive web application
       
      A dynamic website is one that changes or customizes itself frequently and automatically. Server-side dynamic pages are generated "on the fly" by computer code that produces the HTML (CSS are responsible for appearance and thus, are static files). There are a wide range of software systems, such as CGI, Java Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), Active Server Pages and ColdFusion (CFML) that are available to generate dynamic web systems and dynamic sites. Various web application frameworks and web template systems are available for general-use programming languages like Perl, PHP, Python and Ruby to make it faster and easier to create complex dynamic websites. 
      A site can display the current state of a dialogue between users, monitor a changing situation, or provide information in some way personalized to the requirements of the individual user. For example, when the front page of a news site is requested, the code running on the webserver might combine stored HTML fragments with news stories retrieved from a database or another website via RSS to produce a page that includes the latest information. Dynamic sites can be interactive by using HTML forms, storing and reading back browser cookies, or by creating a series of pages that reflect the previous history of clicks. Another example of dynamic content is when a retail website with a database of media products allows a user to input a search request, e.g. for the keyword Beatles. In response, the content of the web page will spontaneously change the way it looked before, and will then display a list of Beatles products like CDs, DVDs, and books. Dynamic HTML uses JavaScript code to instruct the web browser how to interactively modify the page contents. One way to simulate a certain type of dynamic website while avoiding the performance loss of initiating the dynamic engine on a per-user or per-connection basis is to periodically automatically regenerate a large series of static pages.  
      Multimedia and interactive content 
      Early websites had only text, and soon after, images. Web browser plug ins were then used to add audio, video, and interactivity (such as for a rich web application that mirrors the complexity of a desktop application like a word processor). Examples of such plug-ins are Microsoft Silverlight, Adobe Flash Player, Adobe Shockwave Player, and Java SE. HTML 5 includes provisions for audio and video without plugins. JavaScript is also built into most modern web browsers, and allows for website creators to send code to the web browser that instructs it how to interactively modify page content and communicate with the web server if needed. The browser's internal representation of the content is known as the Document Object Model (DOM). 
      WebGL (Web Graphics Library) is a modern JavaScript API for rendering interactive 3D graphics without the use of plug-ins. It allows interactive content such as 3D animations, visualizations and video explainers to presented users in the most intuitive way. 
      A 2010-era trend in websites called "responsive design" has given the best viewing experience as it provides a device based layout for users. These websites change their layout according to the device or mobile platform, thus giving a rich user experience.  
      Types 
      Websites can be divided into two broad categories—static and interactive. Interactive sites are part of the Web 2.0 community of sites and allow for interactivity between the site owner and site visitors or users. Static sites serve or capture information but do not allow engagement with the audience or users directly. Some websites are informational or produced by enthusiasts or for personal use or entertainment. Many websites do aim to make money, using one or more business models, including:  
      
       Posting interesting content and selling contextual advertising either through direct sales or through an advertising network. 
       E-commerce: products or services are purchased directly through the website 
       Advertising products or services available at a brick and mortar business 
       Freemium: basic content is available for free but premium content requires a payment (e.g., WordPress website, it is an open-source platform to build a blog or website.)
       
      There are many varieties of websites, each specializing in a particular type of content or use, and they may be arbitrarily classified in any number of ways. A few such classifications might include:  
       
       
         
         Click "show" or "hide" to toggle this table 
         
         
         Type of Website  
         Description  
         Examples 
         
         
         Affiliate network  
         A site, typically few in pages, whose purpose is to sell a third party's product. The seller receives a commission for facilitating the sale.  
          
         
         
         Affiliate agency  
         Enabled portal that renders not only its custom CMS but also syndicated content from other content providers for an agreed fee. There are usually three relationship tiers (see Affiliate Agencies).  
         Commission Junction, advertisers like eBay, or a consumer like Yahoo!. 
         
         
         Archive site  
         Used to preserve valuable electronic content threatened with extinction. Two examples are: Internet Archive, which since 1996 has preserved billions of old (and new) web pages; and Google Groups, which in early 2005 was archiving over 845,000,000 messages posted to Usenet news/discussion groups.  
         Internet Archive, Google Groups 
         
         
         Malware website  
         A site created specifically to attack visitors' computers on their first visit to a website by downloading a file (usually a trojan horse). These websites rely on unsuspecting users with poor anti-virus protection in their computers.  
          
         
         
         Blog (weblog)  
         Sites generally used to post online diaries which may include discussion forums. Many bloggers use blogs like an editorial section of a newspaper to express their ideas on anything ranging from politics to religion to video games to parenting, along with anything in between. Some bloggers are professional bloggers and they are paid to blog about a certain subject, and they are usually found on news sites.  
         WordPress 
         
         
         Brand-building site  
         A site with the purpose of creating an experience of a brand online. These sites usually do not sell anything, but focus on building the brand. Brand building sites are most common for low-value, high-volume fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG).  
          
         
         
         Celebrity website  
         A website the information in which revolves around a celebrity or public figure. These sites can be official (endorsed by the celebrity) or fan-made (run by a fan or fans of the celebrity without implicit endorsement).  
         jimcarrey.com 
         
         
         Comparison shopping website  
         A website providing a vertical search engine that shoppers use to filter and compare products based on price, features, reviews, and other criteria.  
         Shopping.com 
         
         
         Crowdfunding website  
         Platform to fund projects by the pre-purchase of products or by asking audience members to make a donation.  
         Kickstarter 
         
         
         Click-to-donate site  
         A website that allows the visitor to donate to charity simply by clicking on a button or answering a question correctly. An advertiser usually donates to the charity for each correct answer generated.  
         The Hunger Site, Freerice 
         
         
         Content site  
         A site the business of which is the creation and distribution of original content  
         wikiHow.com, About.com 
         
         
         Classified ads site  
         A site publishing classified advertisements  
         gumtree.com, Craigslist 
         
         
         Corporate website  
         Used to provide background information about a business, organization, or service.  
          
         
         
         Online dating service  
         A site where users can find other single people looking for long-term relationships, dating, short encounters, or friendship. Many of them are pay per services, but there are many free or partially free dating sites. Most dating sites in the 2010s have the functionality of social networking websites.  
         eHarmony, Match.com 
         
         
         E-commerce website  
         A site offering goods and services for online sale and enabling online transactions for such sales.  
         Amazon.com 
         
         
         Fake news website  
         A site publishing fake news stories, intending to deceive visitors, and profit from advertising.  
         BFNN, The Daily Stormer 
         
         
         Internet forum  
         A site where people can hold conversations in the form of posted messages.  
         SkyscraperCity, 4chan 
         
         
         Gallery website  
         A website designed specifically for use as a gallery; these may be an art gallery or photo gallery and of commercial or non-commercial nature.  
          
         
         
         Government website  
         A website made by the local, state, department, or national government of a country. Usually, these sites also operate websites that are intended to inform tourists or support tourism.  
         USA.gov, Naenara, GOV.UK 
         
         
         Gripe site  
         A site devoted to the criticism of a person, place, corporation, government, or institution.  
          
         
         
         Online game website  
         Websites where users can play online games  
         Browser games, OGame, Travian, 
         
         
         Online gambling website  
         A site that lets users play online games such as gambling.  
          
         
         
         Humor site  
         Satirizes, parodies, or amuses the audience.  
         The Onion, National Lampoon digital archive, Encyclopedia Dramatica 
         
         
         Information site  
         Most websites fit in this category to some extent. They do not necessarily have commercial purposes.  
         Most government, educational and nonprofit institutions have an informational site. 
         
         
         Media-sharing site  
         A site that enables users to upload and view media such as pictures, music, and videos  
         YouTube, DeviantArt 
         
         
         Mirror site  
         A website that is the replication of another website. This type of website is used as a response to spikes in user visitors. Mirror sites are most commonly used to provide multiple sources of the same information and are of particular value as a way of providing reliable access to large downloads.  
          
         
         
         Microblog website  
         A short and simple form of blogging. Microblogs are limited to certain numbers of characters and work similarly to a status update on Facebook.  
         Twitter 
         
         
         News site  
         Similar to an information site, but dedicated to dispensing news, politics, and commentary.  
         cnn.com bbc.com/news  
         
         
         Personal website  
         Websites about an individual or a small group (such as a family) that contains information or any content that the individual wishes to include. Such a personal website is different from a celebrity website, which can be very expensive and run by a publicist or agency.  
          
         
         
         Phishing website  
         A website created to fraudulently acquire sensitive information, such as passwords and credit card details, by masquerading as a trustworthy person or business (such as Social Security Administration, PayPal, a bank) in an electronic communication (see Phishing).  
          
         
         
         Photo sharing website  
         A website created to share digital photos with the online community. (see Photo sharing).  
         Flickr, Instagram, Imgur 
         
         
         p2p/Torrents website  
         Websites that index torrent files. This type of website is different from a BitTorrent client which is usually a stand-alone software.  
         Mininova, The Pirate Bay, IsoHunt 
         
         
         Political site  
         A site on which people may voice political views, provide political humor, campaign for elections, or provide information about a certain candidate, political party or ideology.  
         Rhino Party of Canada website 
         
         
         Question and Answer (Q&amp;A) site  
         Answer site is a site where people can ask questions &amp; get answers.  
         Quora, Yahoo! Answers, Stack Exchange Network (including Stack Overflow) 
         
         
         Religious site  
         A site in which people may advertise a place of worship, or provide inspiration or seek to encourage the faith of a follower of that religion.  
          
         
         
         Review site  
         A site on which people can post reviews for products or services.  
         Yelp, Rotten Tomatoes 
         
         
         School website  
         a site on which teachers, students, or administrators can post information about current events at or involving their school. U.S. elementary-high school websites generally use k12 in the URL  
          
         
         
         Scraper site  
         a site that largely duplicates the content of another site without permission, without actually pretending to be that site, in order to capture some of that site's traffic (especially from search engines) and profit from advertising revenue or in other ways.  
          
         
         
         Search engine  
         A website that indexes material on the Internet or an intranet (and lately on traditional media such as books and newspapers) and provides links to information as a response to a query.  
         Google Search, Bing, DuckDuckGo, Ecosia 
         
         
         Shock site  
         Includes images or other material that is intended to be offensive to most viewers  
         Goatse.cx, rotten.com 
         
         
         Showcase website  
         Web portals used by individuals and organisations to showcase things of interest or value  
          
         
         
         Social bookmarking site  
         A site where users share other content from the Internet and rate and comment on the content.  
         StumbleUpon, Digg 
         
         
         Social networking service  
         A site where users could communicate with one another and share media, such as pictures, videos, music, blogs, etc. with other users. These may include games and web applications.  
         YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, LinkedIn 
         
         
         Social news  
         A social news website features user-posted stories that are ranked based on popularity. Users can comment on these posts, and these comments may also be ranked. Since their emergence with the birth of web 2.0, these sites are used to link many types of information including news, humor, support, and discussion. Social news sites allegedly facilitate democratic participation on the web.  
         Reddit, Digg, SlashDot 
         
         
         Warez  
         A site designed to host or link to materials such as music, movies, and software for the user to download.  
         The Pirate Bay 
         
         
         Webcomic  
         An online comic, ranging in various styles and genres unique to the World Wide Web.  
         Penny Arcade, xkcd, Gunnerkrigg Court 
         
         
         Webmail  
         A site that provides a webmail service.  
         Hotmail, Gmail, Protonmail, Yahoo! Mail 
         
         
         Web portal  
         A site that provides a starting point or a gateway to other resources on the Internet or an intranet.  
         msn.com, msnbc.com, Newgrounds, Yahoo! 
         
         
         Wiki site  
         A site in which users collaboratively edit its content.  
         Wikipedia, wikiHow, Wikia 
        
       
       
      Some websites may be included in one or more of these categories. For example, a business website may promote the business's products, but may also host informative documents, such as white papers. There are also numerous sub-categories to the ones listed above. For example, a porn site is a specific type of e-commerce site or business site (that is, it is trying to sell memberships for access to its site) or have social networking capabilities. A fansite may be a dedication from the owner to a particular celebrity. Websites are constrained by architectural limits (e.g., the computing power dedicated to the website). Very large websites, such as Facebook, Yahoo!, Microsoft, and Google employ many servers and load balancing equipment such as Cisco Content Services Switches to distribute visitor loads over multiple computers at multiple locations. As of early 2011, Facebook utilized 9 data centers with approximately 63,000 servers. 
      In February 2009, Netcraft, an Internet monitoring company that has tracked Web growth since 1995, reported that there were 215,675,903 websites with domain names and content on them in 2009, compared to just 19,732 websites in August 1995. After reaching 1 billion websites in September 2014, a milestone confirmed by NetCraft in its October 2014 Web Server Survey and that Internet Live Stats was the first to announce—as attested by this tweet from the inventor of the World Wide Web himself, Tim Berners-Lee—the number of websites in the world have subsequently declined, reverting to a level below 1 billion. This is due to the monthly fluctuations in the count of inactive websites. The number of websites continued growing to over 1 billion by March 2016 and has continued growing since. Netcraft Web Server Survey in January 2020 reported that there are 1,295,973,827 websites and in April 2021 reported that there are 1,212,139,815 sites across 10,939,637 web facing computers, and 264,469,666 unique domains. However, 85 percent of all websites are reportedly inactive and only 10-15 percent are in use.  
      Internet Users 
      In 2009 there were reportedly 1.73 billion users worldwide with Asia taking leading with 738,257,230 users. Other internet users by region and continent include;  
      
       Europe - 418,029,796 users. 
       North America - 252,908,000 users. 
       Caribbean and Latin America - 179,031,479 users. 
       Africa - 67,371,700 users. 
       Middle East - 57,425,046 users. 
       Australia and Oceania - 20,970,490 users.
       
      Following modernization, better access to computers, growth in smartphones technology and use, social media popularity, and cheaper access to the internet, the number of internet users worldwide increased tremendously to 3.97 in 2019.  This represents over 51 percent of the global population, with Asia remaining the continent with the most internet users as it accounts for 50 percent of the total number of internet users worldwide. China has the most internet users in the Asian continent, accounting for 25 percent of users in Asia. Also, China has more internet users than any other country in the world with over 934 million monthly users as at 2020. This number is more than double the number of internet users in the US which ranked third with 284 million monthly online users. India ranked second with about 687 million internet users accessing the internet either through mobile devices or computers.  One of the most popular activities online is social networking. In 2020, Facebook, a social networking site founded by Mark Zuckerberg recorded over 2.7 billion monthly active users. This number accounts for over half of global internet users, making Facebook the most popular online social network.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Internet portal 
        Computer programming portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Link rot 
        Lists of websites 
        Site map 
        Web content management system 
        Web design 
        Web development 
        Web development tools 
        Web hosting service 
        Web template 
        Website governance 
        Website monetization 
        World Wide Web Consortium (Web standards)
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Tim Berners-Lee". www.w3.org. Retrieved 17 November 2021.  
        ^ 
          "The website of the world's first-ever web server". Retrieved 30 August 2008.  
        ^ 
          Cailliau, Robert. "A Little History of the World Wide Web". Retrieved 16 February 2007.  
        ^ 
          "Internet, Web, and Other Post-Watergate Concerns". University of Chicago. Retrieved 18 September 2010.  
        ^ 
          AP Stylebook  (16 April 2010). "Responding to reader input, we are changing Web site to website. This appears on Stylebook Online today and in the 2010 book next month" (Tweet). Retrieved 18 March 2019 – via Twitter.  
        ^ 
          "OpenGL ES for the Web". khronos.org. 19 July 2011. Retrieved 1 April 2019.  
        ^ 
          Pete LePage. "Responsive Web Design Basics | Web". Google Developers. Retrieved 13 March 2017.  
        ^ 
          Perrin, Andrew; Anderson, Monica (10 April 2019). "Social media usage in the U.S. in 2019 | Pew Research Center". PewResearch.Org. Pew Research. Retrieved 20 July 2019. graphic *Study was quoted in Forbes. }: External link in |quote= (help)  
        ^ 
          "Web Server Survey". Netcraft. Retrieved 13 March 2017.  
        ^ A total number of Websites | Internet live stats. internetlivestats.com. Retrieved on 14 April 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Web Server Survey". Netcraft News. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          Deon (26 May 2020). "How Many Websites Are There Around the World? ". Siteefy. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Internet 2009 in numbers". Pingdom. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Number of internet users worldwide". Statista. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Internet audiences worldwide 2020". Statista. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Facebook MAU worldwide 2020". Statista. Retrieved 17 May 2021.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up website in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Website 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library
           
        
       
       
      
       Internet Corporation For Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) 
       World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) 
       The Internet Society (ISOC)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Website topics
           
         
         
          By type
          
            
            
             Audition website 
             Cashback website 
             Fansite 
             Gripe site 
             Health website 
             Lab website 
             Library website 
             Microsite 
             Mirror site 
             Personal wedding website 
             School website
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Lists by type
          
            
            
             Academic databases 
             BitTorrent sites 
             Blogs 
             Chat websites 
             Dating websites 
             Deal of the day services 
             Dictionaries 
             Employment websites 
             Encyclopedias 
             Fake news websites 
             Image-sharing websites 
             Internet forums 
             Marketplaces 
             Microcredit lending websites 
             Online databases 
             Online video platforms 
             Q&amp;A sites 
             Satirical news websites 
             Search engines 
             Social bookmarking websites 
             Social networking services 
              
               defunct
               
             Tor hidden services 
             Web directories 
             Webcomics 
             Wikis
             
           
         
         
          Lists by subject
          
            
            
             Astronomy websites 
             Biodiversity databases 
             Biology websites 
             Educational websites 
             Environmental websites 
             Food and drink websites 
             Video game websites 
             Professional wrestling websites
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Founded before 1995 
             Most popular websites 
             Websites blocked in mainland China 
             Websites blocked in Russia 
             Websites blocked in the United Kingdom 
             Websites with country access restrictions
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Website&amp;oldid=1062643666"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Websites
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: external links
       Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
       Use dmy dates from May 2020
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Website&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       Ænglisc
       العربية
       Arpetan
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Gàidhlig
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Limburgs
       Lombard
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Malti
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Pälzisch
       پنجابی
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taclḥit
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       Tetun
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       Walon
       West-Vlams
       Winaray
       Wolof
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 29 December 2021, at 17:54&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
