
 
  
   
  Scientific modelling - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Scientific modelling 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Scientific activity
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Example scientific modelling. A schematic of chemical and transport processes related to atmospheric composition.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Research
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            List of academic fields
           
            
            
             Applied sciences 
              
               R &amp; D
               
             Formal sciences 
             Humanities 
             Natural sciences 
             Professions 
             Social sciences
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research design
           
            
            
             Research proposal 
             Research question 
             Writing 
              
               Argument 
               Referencing
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophy
           
            
            
              Constructivism 
             Empiricism 
             Positivism / Antipositivism / Postpositivism 
             Realism 
              
               Critical realism 
               Subtle realism
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research strategy
           
            
            
             Interdisciplinary 
             Multimethodology 
             Qualitative 
             Quantitative
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methodology
           
            
            
             Action research 
             Art methodology 
             Critical theory 
             Feminism 
             Grounded theory 
             Hermeneutics 
             Historiography 
             Narrative inquiry 
             Phenomenology 
             Pragmatism 
             Scientific method
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Case study 
             Content analysis 
             Descriptive statistics 
             Discourse analysis 
             Ethnography 
             Experiment 
              
               Field experiment 
               Social experiment 
               Quasi-experiment
               
             Field research 
             Historical method 
             Inferential statistics 
             Interviews 
             Mapping 
              
               Cultural mapping
               
             Phenomenography 
             Secondary research 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Literature review 
               Meta-analysis 
               Scoping review 
               Systematic review
               
             Scientific modelling 
              
               Simulation
               
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Tools and software
           
            
            
             Argument technology 
             Geographic information system software 
             Library and information science software 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Reference management
               
             Science software 
              
               Qualitative data analysis 
               Simulation 
               Statistics
              
            
           
           
        
        
          Philosophy portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Scientific modelling is a scientific activity, the aim of which is to make a particular part or feature of the world easier to understand, define, quantify, visualize, or simulate by referencing it to existing and usually commonly accepted knowledge. It requires selecting and identifying relevant aspects of a situation in the real world and then using different types of models for different aims, such as conceptual models to better understand, operational models to operationalize, mathematical models to quantify, computational models to simulate, and graphical models to visualize the subject. 
      Modelling is an essential and inseparable part of many scientific disciplines, each of which has its own ideas about specific types of modelling. The following was said by John von Neumann.  
      
      
       ... the sciences do not try to explain, they hardly even try to interpret, they mainly make models. By a model is meant a mathematical construct which, with the addition of certain verbal interpretations, describes observed phenomena. The justification of such a mathematical construct is solely and precisely that it is expected to work—that is, correctly to describe phenomena from a reasonably wide area.
       
      There is also an increasing attention to scientific modelling in fields such as science education, philosophy of science, systems theory, and knowledge visualization. There is a growing collection of methods, techniques and meta-theory about all kinds of specialized scientific modelling.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 Basics 
          
          2.1 Modelling as a substitute for direct measurement and experimentation 
          2.2 Simulation 
          2.3 Structure 
          2.4 Systems 
          2.5 Generating a model 
          2.6 Evaluating a model 
          2.7 Visualization 
          2.8 Space mapping 
           
        3 Types 
        4 Applications 
          
          4.1 Modelling and simulation 
          4.2 Model-based learning in education 
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      
       
       
      A scientific model seeks to represent empirical objects, phenomena, and physical processes in a logical and objective way. All models are in simulacra, that is, simplified reflections of reality that, despite being approximations, can be extremely useful. Building and disputing models is fundamental to the scientific enterprise. Complete and true representation may be impossible, but scientific debate often concerns which is the better model for a given task, e.g., which is the more accurate climate model for seasonal forecasting. 
      Attempts to formalize the principles of the empirical sciences use an interpretation to model reality, in the same way logicians axiomatize the principles of logic. The aim of these attempts is to construct a formal system that will not produce theoretical consequences that are contrary to what is found in reality. Predictions or other statements drawn from such a formal system mirror or map the real world only insofar as these scientific models are true. 
      For the scientist, a model is also a way in which the human thought processes can be amplified. For instance, models that are rendered in software allow scientists to leverage computational power to simulate, visualize, manipulate and gain intuition about the entity, phenomenon, or process being represented. Such computer models are in silico. Other types of scientific models are in vivo (living models, such as laboratory rats) and in vitro (in glassware, such as tissue culture).  
      Basics 
      Modelling as a substitute for direct measurement and experimentation 
      Models are typically used when it is either impossible or impractical to create experimental conditions in which scientists can directly measure outcomes. Direct measurement of outcomes under controlled conditions (see Scientific method) will always be more reliable than modeled estimates of outcomes. 
      Within  modeling and simulation, a model is a task-driven, purposeful simplification and abstraction of a perception of reality, shaped by physical, legal, and cognitive constraints. It is task-driven because a model is captured with a certain question or task in mind. Simplifications leave all the known and observed entities and their relation out that are not important for the task. Abstraction aggregates information that is important but not needed in the same detail as the object of interest. Both activities, simplification, and abstraction, are done purposefully. However, they are done based on a perception of reality. This perception is already a model in itself, as it comes with a physical constraint. There are also constraints on what we are able to legally observe with our current tools and methods, and cognitive constraints that limit what we are able to explain with our current theories. This model comprises the concepts, their behavior, and their relations informal form and is often referred to as a conceptual model. In order to execute the model, it needs to be implemented as a computer simulation. This requires more choices, such as numerical approximations or the use of heuristics. Despite all these epistemological and computational constraints, simulation has been recognized as the third pillar of scientific methods: theory building, simulation, and experimentation.  
      Simulation 
      A simulation is a way to implement the model, often employed when the model is too complex for the analytical solution. A steady-state simulation provides information about the system at a specific instant in time (usually at equilibrium, if such a state exists). A dynamic simulation provides information over time. A simulation shows how a particular object or phenomenon will behave. Such a simulation can be useful for testing, analysis, or training in those cases where real-world systems or concepts can be represented by models.  
      Structure 
      Structure is a fundamental and sometimes intangible notion covering the recognition, observation, nature, and stability of patterns and relationships of entities. From a child's verbal description of a snowflake, to the detailed scientific analysis of the properties of magnetic fields, the concept of structure is an essential foundation of nearly every mode of inquiry and discovery in science, philosophy, and art.  
      Systems 
      A system is a set of interacting or interdependent entities, real or abstract, forming an integrated whole. In general, a system is a construct or collection of different elements that together can produce results not obtainable by the elements alone. The concept of an 'integrated whole' can also be stated in terms of a system embodying a set of relationships which are differentiated from relationships of the set to other elements, and form relationships between an element of the set and elements not a part of the relational regime. There are two types of system models: 1) discrete in which the variables change instantaneously at separate points in time and, 2) continuous where the state variables change continuously with respect to time.  
      Generating a model 
      Modelling is the process of generating a model as a conceptual representation of some phenomenon. Typically a model will deal with only some aspects of the phenomenon in question, and two models of the same phenomenon may be essentially different—that is to say, that the differences between them comprise more than just a simple renaming of components. 
      Such differences may be due to differing requirements of the model's end users, or to conceptual or aesthetic differences among the modelers and to contingent decisions made during the modelling process. Considerations that may influence the structure of a model might be the modeler's preference for a reduced ontology, preferences regarding statistical models versus deterministic models, discrete versus continuous time, etc. In any case, users of a model need to understand the assumptions made that are pertinent to its validity for a given use. 
      Building a model requires abstraction. Assumptions are used in modelling in order to specify the domain of application of the model. For example, the special theory of relativity assumes an inertial frame of reference. This assumption was contextualized and further explained by the general theory of relativity. A model makes accurate predictions when its assumptions are valid, and might well not make accurate predictions when its assumptions do not hold. Such assumptions are often the point with which older theories are succeeded by new ones (the general theory of relativity works in non-inertial reference frames as well).  
      Evaluating a model 
      
      
       See also: Models of scientific inquiry §&nbsp;Choice of a theory
       
      A model is evaluated first and foremost by its consistency to empirical data; any model inconsistent with reproducible observations must be modified or rejected. One way to modify the model is by restricting the domain over which it is credited with having high validity. A case in point is Newtonian physics, which is highly useful except for the very small, the very fast, and the very massive phenomena of the universe. However, a fit to empirical data alone is not sufficient for a model to be accepted as valid. Factors important in evaluating a model include:  
      
       Ability to explain past observations 
       Ability to predict future observations 
       Cost of use, especially in combination with other models 
       Refutability, enabling estimation of the degree of confidence in the model 
       Simplicity, or even aesthetic appeal
       
      People may attempt to quantify the evaluation of a model using a utility function.  
      Visualization 
      Visualization is any technique for creating images, diagrams, or animations to communicate a message. Visualization through visual imagery has been an effective way to communicate both abstract and concrete ideas since the dawn of man. Examples from history include cave paintings, Egyptian hieroglyphs, Greek geometry, and Leonardo da Vinci's revolutionary methods of technical drawing for engineering and scientific purposes.  
      Space mapping 
      Space mapping refers to a methodology that employs a "quasi-global" modelling formulation to link companion "coarse" (ideal or low-fidelity) with "fine" (practical or high-fidelity) models of different complexities. In engineering optimization, space mapping aligns (maps) a very fast coarse model with its related expensive-to-compute fine model so as to avoid direct expensive optimization of the fine model. The alignment process iteratively refines a "mapped" coarse model (surrogate model).  
      Types 
       
        
        
          
           
           
            Analogical modelling 
            Assembly modelling 
            Catastrophe modelling 
            Choice modelling 
            Climate model 
            Computational model 
            Continuous modelling 
            Data modelling 
            Discrete modelling 
            Document modelling 
            Econometric model 
            Economic model 
            Ecosystem model
             
           
           
            Empirical modelling 
            Enterprise modelling 
            Futures studies 
            Geologic modelling 
            Goal modelling 
            Homology modelling 
            Hydrogeology 
            Hydrography 
            Hydrologic modelling 
            Informative modelling 
            Macroscale modelling 
            Mathematical modelling
             
           
           
            Metabolic network modelling 
            Microscale modelling 
            Modelling biological systems 
            Modelling in epidemiology 
            Molecular modelling 
            Multicomputational model 
            Multiscale modelling 
            NLP modelling 
            Phenomenological modelling 
            Predictive intake modelling 
            Predictive modelling 
            Scale modelling 
            Simulation
             
           
           
            Software modelling 
            Solid modelling 
            Space mapping 
            Statistical model 
            Stochastic modelling (insurance) 
            Surrogate model 
            System architecture 
            System dynamics 
            Systems modelling 
            System-level modelling and simulation 
            Water quality modelling
              
         
        
       
       
      Applications 
      Modelling and simulation 
      One application of scientific modelling is the field of modelling and simulation, generally referred to as "M&amp;S". M&amp;S has a spectrum of applications which range from concept development and analysis, through experimentation, measurement, and verification, to disposal analysis. Projects and programs may use hundreds of different simulations, simulators and model analysis tools.  
      
       
        
          
         
          
           
          Example of the integrated use of Modelling and Simulation in Defence life cycle management. The modelling and simulation in this image is represented in the center of the image with the three containers.
         
        
       
       
      The figure shows how Modelling and Simulation is used as a central part of an integrated program in a Defence capability development process.  
      Model-based learning in education 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (February 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article may be confusing or unclear to readers. Please help clarify the article. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page. (February 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
       
       
      Model–based learning in education, particularly in relation to learning science involves students creating models for scientific concepts in order to:  
      
       Gain insight of the scientific idea(s) 
       Acquire deeper understanding of the subject through visualization of the model 
       Improve student engagement in the course
       
      Different types of model based learning techniques include:  
      
       Physical macrocosms 
       Representational systems 
       Syntactic models 
       Emergent models
       
      Model–making in education is an iterative exercise with students refining, developing and evaluating their models over time. This shifts learning from the rigidity and monotony of traditional curriculum to an exercise of students' creativity and curiosity. This approach utilizes the constructive strategy of social collaboration and learning scaffold theory. Model based learning includes cognitive reasoning skills where existing models can be improved upon by the construction of newer models using the old models as a basis. 
      "Model–based learning entails determining target models and a learning pathway that provide realistic chances of understanding." Model making can also incorporate blended learning strategies by using web based tools and simulators, thereby allowing students to:  
      
       Familiarize themselves with on-line or digital resources 
       Create different models with various virtual materials at little or no cost 
       Practice model making activity any time and any place 
       Refine existing models
       
      "A well-designed simulation simplifies a real-world system while heightening awareness of the complexity of the system. Students can participate in the simplified system and learn how the real system operates without spending days, weeks or years it would take to undergo this experience in the real world." 
      The teacher's role in the overall teaching and learning process is primarily that of a facilitator and arranger of the learning experience. He or she would assign the students, a model making activity for a particular concept and provide relevant information or support for the activity. For virtual model making activities, the teacher can also provide information on the usage of the digital tool and render troubleshooting support in case of glitches while using the same. The teacher can also arrange the group discussion activity between the students and provide the platform necessary for students to share their observations and knowledge extracted from the model making activity. 
      Model-based learning evaluation could include the use of rubrics that assess the ingenuity and creativity of the student in the model construction and also the overall classroom participation of the student vis-a-vis the knowledge constructed through the activity. 
      It is important, however, to give due consideration to the following for successful model-based learning to occur:  
      
       Use of the right tool at the right time for a particular concept 
       Provision within the educational setup for the model–making activity: e.g., computer room with internet facility or software installed to access simulator or digital tool
       
      See also 
      
       Abductive reasoning 
       All models are wrong 
       Heuristic 
       Inverse model 
       Scientific visualization 
       Statistical model
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Cartwright, Nancy. 1983. How the Laws of Physics Lie. Oxford University Press  
         ^ Hacking, Ian. 1983. Representing and Intervening. Introductory Topics in the Philosophy of Natural Science. Cambridge University Press  
         ^ von Neumann, J. (1995), "Method in the physical sciences", in Bródy F., Vámos, T. (editors), The Neumann Compendium, World Scientific, p. 628; previously published in The Unity of Knowledge, edited by L. Leary (1955), pp. 157-164, and also in John von Neumann Collected Works, edited by A. Taub, Volume VI, pp. 491-498.  
         ^ Frigg and Hartmann (2009) state: "Philosophers are acknowledging the importance of models with increasing attention and are probing the assorted roles that models play in scientific practice". Source: Frigg, Roman and Hartmann, Stephan, "Models in Science", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2009 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), (source)  
         ^ Namdar, Bahadir; Shen, Ji (2015-02-18). "Modelling-Oriented Assessment in K-12 Science Education: A synthesis of research from 1980 to 2013 and new directions". International Journal of Science Education. 37 (7): 993–1023. doi:10.1080/09500693.2015.1012185. ISSN&nbsp;0950-0693. S2CID&nbsp;143865553.  
         ^ Box, George E.P. &amp; Draper, N.R. (1987).  Wiley. p. 424  
         ^ Hagedorn, R. et al. (2005) http://www.ecmwf.int/staff/paco_doblas/abstr/tellus05_1.pdf Tellus 57A:219–33  
         ^ Leo Apostel (1961). "Formal study of models". In: The Concept and the Role of the Model in Mathematics and Natural and Social. Edited by Hans Freudenthal. Springer. pp. 8–9 (Source)],  
         ^ Ritchey, T. (2012) Outline for a Morphology of Modelling Methods: Contribution to a General Theory of Modelling  
         ^ C. West Churchman, The Systems Approach, New York: Dell Publishing, 1968, p. 61  
         ^ Griffiths, E. C. (2010) What is a model?  
         ^ Tolk, A. (2015). Learning something right from models that are wrong – Epistemology of Simulation. In Yilmaz, L. (Ed.) Concepts and Methodologies in Modelling and Simulation. Springer–Verlag. pp. 87–106  
         ^ Oberkampf, W. L., DeLand, S. M., Rutherford, B. M., Diegert, K. V., &amp; Alvin, K. F. (2002). Error and uncertainty in modelling and simulation. Reliability Engineering &amp; System Safety 75(3): 333–57.  
         ^ Ihrig, M. (2012). A New Research Architecture For The Simulation Era. In European Council on Modelling and Simulation. pp. 715–20).  
         ^ a b c Systems Engineering Fundamentals. Archived 2007-09-27 at the Wayback Machine Defense Acquisition University Press, 2003.  
         ^ 
           Pullan, Wendy (2000). Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-521-78258-9.  
         ^ Fishwick PA. (1995). Simulation Model Design and Execution: Building Digital Worlds. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.  
         ^ Sokolowski, J.A., Banks, C.M.(2009). Principles of Modelling and Simulation. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons.  
         ^ a b 
           Lehrer, Richard; Schauble, Leona (2006). The Cambridge Handbook of Learning Sciences. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;371. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-84554-0.  
         ^ 
           Nersessian, Nancy J (2002). The Cognitive Basis of Science. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;133. ISBN&nbsp;0-521-01177-9.  
         ^ 
           Clement, JJ; Rea-Ramirez, Mary Anne (2008). Model Based Learning and Instruction in Science (2&nbsp;ed.). Springer Science &amp; Business Media. p.&nbsp;45. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4020-6493-7.  
         ^ 
           Blumschein, Patrick; Hung, Woei; Jonassen, David; Strobel, Johannes (2009). Model-Based Approaches to Learning (PDF). Netherlands: Sense Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-90-8790-711-2.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      Nowadays there are some 40 magazines about scientific modelling which offer all kinds of international forums. Since the 1960s there is a strongly growing number of books and magazines about specific forms of scientific modelling. There is also a lot of discussion about scientific modelling in the philosophy-of-science literature. A selection:  
      
       Rainer Hegselmann, Ulrich Müller and Klaus Troitzsch (eds.) (1996). Modelling and Simulation in the Social Sciences from the Philosophy of Science Point of View. Theory and Decision Library. Dordrecht: Kluwer. 
       Paul Humphreys (2004). Extending Ourselves: Computational Science, Empiricism, and Scientific Method. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
       Johannes Lenhard, Günter Küppers and Terry Shinn (Eds.) (2006) "Simulation: Pragmatic Constructions of Reality", Springer Berlin. 
       Tom Ritchey (2012). "Outline for a Morphology of Modelling Methods: Contribution to a General Theory of Modelling". In: Acta Morphologica Generalis, Vol 1. No 1. pp.&nbsp;1–20. 
       William Silvert (2001). "Modelling as a Discipline". In: Int. J. General Systems. Vol. 30(3), pp. 261. 
       Sergio Sismondo and Snait Gissis (eds.) (1999). Modeling and Simulation. Special Issue of Science in Context 12. 
       Eric Winsberg (2018) "Philosophy and Climate Science" Cambridge: Cambridge University Press 
       Eric Winsberg (2010) "Science in the Age of Computer Simulation" Chicago: University of Chicago Press 
       Eric Winsberg (2003). "Simulated Experiments: Methodology for a Virtual World". In: Philosophy of Science 70: 105–125. 
       Tomáš Helikar, Jim A Rogers (2009). "ChemChains: a platform for simulation and analysis of biochemical networks aimed to laboratory scientists". BioMed Central.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Scientific modelling
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Scientific modeling.
         
       
       
      
       Models. Entry in the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       Models in Science. Entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       The World as a Process: Simulations in the Natural and Social Sciences, in: R. Hegselmann et al. (eds.), Modelling and Simulation in the Social Sciences from the Philosophy of Science Point of View, Theory and Decision Library. Dordrecht: Kluwer 1996, 77-100. 
       Research in simulation and modelling of various physical systems 
       Modelling Water Quality Information Center, U.S. Department of Agriculture 
       Ecotoxicology &amp; Models 
       A Morphology of Modelling Methods. Acta Morphologica Generalis, Vol 1. No 1. pp.&nbsp;1–20.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Scientific modelling
           
         
         
          Biological
          
            
            
             Cellular model 
             Chemical process modeling 
             Ecosystem model 
             Infectious disease model 
             Metabolic network modelling 
             Modelling biological systems 
             Protein structure prediction
             
           
         
         
          Environmental
          
            
            
             Atmospheric model 
             Chemical transport model 
             Climate model 
             Geologic modelling 
             Groundwater model 
             Hydrological model 
             Hydrological transport model 
             Modular Ocean Model 
             Wildfire modeling
             
           
         
         
          Sustainability
          
            
            
             Energy modeling 
             Integrated assessment modelling 
             Population model
             
           
         
         
          Social
          
            
            
             Biopsychosocial model 
             Business process modelling 
             Catastrophe modeling 
             Construction and management simulation 
             Crime mapping 
             Economic model 
             Input–output model
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Data visualization 
             List of computer simulation software 
             Mathematical modeling 
             Systems theory 
             Systems thinking 
             Visual analytics
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scientific_modelling&amp;oldid=1067408678"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Scientific modelling
       Conceptual modelling
       Epistemology of science
       Interpretation (philosophy)
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from May 2018
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use Oxford spelling from August 2016
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from May 2008
       Articles with a promotional tone from February 2019
       All articles with a promotional tone
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2019
       All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       AC with 0 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Беларуская
       Català
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Italiano
       Қазақша
       Кыргызча
       मराठी
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Português
       Русский
       தமிழ்
       Тоҷикӣ
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 23 January 2022, at 09:23&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
