
 
  
   
  Machine translation - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Machine translation 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Use of software for language translation
       
      
      
       For machine translation on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Content translation tool.
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Translation
        
        
         
        
        
          Types
        
        
          
          
           Legal 
           Literary 
           Bible 
           Quran 
           Kural 
           Linguistic validation 
           Medical 
           Regulatory 
           Technical 
           Interpretation 
           Cultural 
           Word-for-word 
           Sense-for-sense 
           Homophonic
           
        
        
          Theory
        
        
          
          
           Translation studies 
           Skopos theory 
           Translation project 
           Translation criticism 
           Dynamic and formal equivalence 
           Contrastive linguistics
           
        
        
          Technologies
        
        
          
          
           CAT 
           Machine translation 
           Mobile translation 
           Translation management system 
           Dubbing 
           Subtitling 
           Pre-editing 
           Postediting 
           Multimedia translation
           
        
        
          Localization
        
        
          
          
           Glocalization 
           Internationalization and localization 
           Language localization 
           Video game localization 
           Dub localization 
           Website localization 
           Software localization
           
        
        
          Institutional
        
        
          
          
           Associations 
           Awards 
           Organizations 
           Schools
           
        
        
          Related topics
        
        
          
          
           Transcription 
           Transliteration 
           Video relay service (VRS) 
           Telephone interpreting 
           Language barrier 
           Fan translation 
           Fansub 
           Fandub 
           Scanlation 
           Journalistic translation 
           Books and magazines on translation 
           Bible translations by language 
           Translated books 
            
             List of most translated works
             
           Translators 
           Kural translations by language
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation or interactive translation), is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another. 
      On a basic level, MT performs mechanical substitution of words in one language for words in another, but that alone rarely produces a good translation because recognition of whole phrases and their closest counterparts in the target language is needed. Not all words in one language have equivalent words in another language, and many words have more than one meaning. 
      Solving this problem with corpus statistical and neural techniques is a rapidly-growing field that is leading to better translations, handling differences in linguistic typology, translation of idioms, and the isolation of anomalies. 
      Current machine translation software often allows for customization by domain or profession (such as weather reports), improving output by limiting the scope of allowable substitutions. This technique is particularly effective in domains where formal or formulaic language is used. It follows that machine translation of government and legal documents more readily produces usable output than conversation or less standardised text. 
      Improved output quality can also be achieved by human intervention: for example, some systems are able to translate more accurately if the user has unambiguously identified which words in the text are proper names. With the assistance of these techniques, MT has proven useful as a tool to assist human translators and, in a very limited number of cases, can even produce output that can be used as is (e.g., weather reports). 
      The progress and potential of machine translation have been much debated through its history. Since the 1950s, a number of scholars, first and most notably Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, have questioned the possibility of achieving fully automatic machine translation of high quality.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Origins 
          1.2 1950s 
          1.3 1960–1975 
          1.4 1975 and beyond 
           
        2 Translation process 
        3 Approaches 
          
          3.1 Rule-based 
            
            3.1.1 Transfer-based machine translation 
            3.1.2 Interlingual 
            3.1.3 Dictionary-based 
             
          3.2 Statistical 
          3.3 Example-based 
          3.4 Hybrid MT 
          3.5 Neural MT 
           
        4 Major issues 
          
          4.1 Disambiguation 
          4.2 Non-standard speech 
          4.3 Named entities 
           
        5 Translation from multiparallel sources 
        6 Ontologies in MT 
          
          6.1 Building ontologies 
           
        7 Applications 
        8 Evaluation 
        9 Using machine translation as a teaching tool 
        10 Machine translation and signed languages 
        11 Copyright 
        12 See also 
        13 Notes 
        14 Further reading 
        15 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of machine translation
       
      Origins 
      The origins of machine translation can be traced back to the work of Al-Kindi, a ninth-century Arabic cryptographer who developed techniques for systemic language translation, including cryptanalysis, frequency analysis, and probability and statistics, which are used in modern machine translation. The idea of machine translation later appeared in the 17th century. In 1629, René Descartes proposed a universal language, with equivalent ideas in different tongues sharing one symbol. 
      The idea of using digital computers for translation of natural languages was proposed as early as 1946 by England's A. D. Booth and Warren Weaver at Rockefeller Foundation at the same time. "The memorandum written by Warren Weaver in 1949 is perhaps the single most influential publication in the earliest days of machine translation." Others followed. A demonstration was made in 1954 on the APEXC machine at Birkbeck College (University of London) of a rudimentary translation of English into French. Several papers on the topic were published at the time, and even articles in popular journals (for example an article by Cleave and Zacharov in the September 1955 issue of Wireless World). A similar application, also pioneered at Birkbeck College at the time, was reading and composing Braille texts by computer.  
      1950s 
      The first researcher in the field, Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, began his research at MIT (1951). A Georgetown University MT research team, led by Professor Michael Zarechnak, followed (1951) with a public demonstration of its Georgetown-IBM experiment system in 1954. MT research programs popped up in Japan and Russia (1955), and the first MT conference was held in London (1956). 
      David G. Hays "wrote about computer-assisted language processing as early as 1957" and "was project leader on computational linguistics at Rand from 1955 to 1968."  
      1960–1975 
      Researchers continued to join the field as the Association for Machine Translation and Computational Linguistics was formed in the U.S. (1962) and the National Academy of Sciences formed the Automatic Language Processing Advisory Committee (ALPAC) to study MT (1964). Real progress was much slower, however, and after the ALPAC report (1966), which found that the ten-year-long research had failed to fulfill expectations, funding was greatly reduced. According to a 1972 report by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&amp;E), the feasibility of large-scale MT was reestablished by the success of the Logos MT system in translating military manuals into Vietnamese during that conflict. 
      The French Textile Institute also used MT to translate abstracts from and into French, English, German and Spanish (1970); Brigham Young University started a project to translate Mormon texts by automated translation (1971).  
      1975 and beyond 
      SYSTRAN, which "pioneered the field under contracts from the U. S. government" in the 1960s, was used by Xerox to translate technical manuals (1978). Beginning in the late 1980s, as computational power increased and became less expensive, more interest was shown in statistical models for machine translation. MT became more popular after the advent of computers. SYSTRAN's first implementation system was implemented in 1988 by the online service of the French Postal Service called Minitel. Various computer based translation companies were also launched, including Trados (1984), which was the first to develop and market Translation Memory technology (1989), though this is not the same as MT. The first commercial MT system for Russian / English / German-Ukrainian was developed at Kharkov State University (1991). 
      By 1998, "for as little as $29.95" one could "buy a program for translating in one direction between English and a major European language of your choice" to run on a PC. 
      MT on the web started with SYSTRAN offering free translation of small texts (1996) and then providing this via AltaVista Babelfish, which racked up 500,000 requests a day (1997). The second free translation service on the web was Lernout &amp; Hauspie's GlobaLink. Atlantic Magazine wrote in 1998 that "Systran's Babelfish and GlobaLink's Comprende" handled "Don't bank on it" with a "competent performance." 
      Franz Josef Och (the future head of Translation Development AT Google) won DARPA's speed MT competition (2003). More innovations during this time included MOSES, the open-source statistical MT engine (2007), a text/SMS translation service for mobiles in Japan (2008), and a mobile phone with built-in speech-to-speech translation functionality for English, Japanese and Chinese (2009). In 2012, Google announced that Google Translate translates roughly enough text to fill 1 million books in one day.  
      Translation process 
      
      
       Main article: Translation process
       
      The human translation process may be described as:  
      
       Decoding the meaning of the source text; and 
       Re-encoding this meaning in the target language.
       
      Behind this ostensibly simple procedure lies a complex cognitive operation. To decode the meaning of the source text in its entirety, the translator must interpret and analyse all the features of the text, a process that requires in-depth knowledge of the grammar, semantics, syntax, idioms, etc., of the source language, as well as the culture of its speakers. The translator needs the same in-depth knowledge to re-encode the meaning in the target language. 
      Therein lies the challenge in machine translation: how to program a computer that will "understand" a text as a person does, and that will "create" a new text in the target language that sounds as if it has been written by a person. Unless aided by a 'knowledge base' MT provides only a general, though imperfect, approximation of the original text, getting the "gist" of it (a process called "gisting"). This is sufficient for many purposes, including making best use of the finite and expensive time of a human translator, reserved for those cases in which total accuracy is indispensable.  
      Approaches 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bernard Vauquois' pyramid showing comparative depths of intermediary representation, interlingual machine translation at the peak, followed by transfer-based, then direct translation.
        
       
       
      Machine translation can use a method based on linguistic rules, which means that words will be translated in a linguistic way – the most suitable (orally speaking) words of the target language will replace the ones in the source language. 
      It is often argued that the success of machine translation requires the problem of natural language understanding to be solved first. 
      Generally, rule-based methods parse a text, usually creating an intermediary, symbolic representation, from which the text in the target language is generated. According to the nature of the intermediary representation, an approach is described as interlingual machine translation or transfer-based machine translation. These methods require extensive lexicons with morphological, syntactic, and semantic information, and large sets of rules. 
      Given enough data, machine translation programs often work well enough for a native speaker of one language to get the approximate meaning of what is written by the other native speaker. The difficulty is getting enough data of the right kind to support the particular method. For example, the large multilingual corpus of data needed for statistical methods to work is not necessary for the grammar-based methods. But then, the grammar methods need a skilled linguist to carefully design the grammar that they use. 
      To translate between closely related languages, the technique referred to as rule-based machine translation may be used.  
      Rule-based 
      
      
       Main article: Rule-based machine translation
       
      The rule-based machine translation paradigm includes transfer-based machine translation, interlingual machine translation and dictionary-based machine translation paradigms. This type of translation is used mostly in the creation of dictionaries and grammar programs. Unlike other methods, RBMT involves more information about the linguistics of the source and target languages, using the morphological and syntactic rules and semantic analysis of both languages. The basic approach involves linking the structure of the input sentence with the structure of the output sentence using a parser and an analyzer for the source language, a generator for the target language, and a transfer lexicon for the actual translation. RBMT's biggest downfall is that everything must be made explicit: orthographical variation and erroneous input must be made part of the source language analyser in order to cope with it, and lexical selection rules must be written for all instances of ambiguity. Adapting to new domains in itself is not that hard, as the core grammar is the same across domains, and the domain-specific adjustment is limited to lexical selection adjustment.  
      Transfer-based machine translation 
      
      
       Main article: Transfer-based machine translation
       
      Transfer-based machine translation is similar to interlingual machine translation in that it creates a translation from an intermediate representation that simulates the meaning of the original sentence. Unlike interlingual MT, it depends partially on the language pair involved in the translation.  
      Interlingual 
      
      
       Main article: Interlingual machine translation
       
      Interlingual machine translation is one instance of rule-based machine-translation approaches. In this approach, the source language, i.e. the text to be translated, is transformed into an interlingual language, i.e. a "language neutral" representation that is independent of any language. The target language is then generated out of the interlingua. One of the major advantages of this system is that the interlingua becomes more valuable as the number of target languages it can be turned into increases. However, the only interlingual machine translation system that has been made operational at the commercial level is the KANT system (Nyberg and Mitamura, 1992), which is designed to translate Caterpillar Technical English (CTE) into other languages.  
      Dictionary-based 
      
      
       Main article: Dictionary-based machine translation
       
      Machine translation can use a method based on dictionary entries, which means that the words will be translated as they are by a dictionary.  
      Statistical 
      
      
       Main article: Statistical machine translation
       
      Statistical machine translation tries to generate translations using statistical methods based on bilingual text corpora, such as the Canadian Hansard corpus, the English-French record of the Canadian parliament and EUROPARL, the record of the European Parliament. Where such corpora are available, good results can be achieved translating similar texts, but such corpora are still rare for many language pairs. The first statistical machine translation software was CANDIDE from IBM. Google used SYSTRAN for several years, but switched to a statistical translation method in October 2007. In 2005, Google improved its internal translation capabilities by using approximately 200 billion words from United Nations materials to train their system; translation accuracy improved. Google Translate and similar statistical translation programs work by detecting patterns in hundreds of millions of documents that have previously been translated by humans and making intelligent guesses based on the findings. Generally, the more human-translated documents available in a given language, the more likely it is that the translation will be of good quality. Newer approaches into Statistical Machine translation such as METIS II and PRESEMT use minimal corpus size and instead focus on derivation of syntactic structure through pattern recognition. With further development, this may allow statistical machine translation to operate off of a monolingual text corpus. SMT's biggest downfall includes it being dependent upon huge amounts of parallel texts, its problems with morphology-rich languages (especially with translating into such languages), and its inability to correct singleton errors.  
      Example-based 
      
      
       Main article: Example-based machine translation
       
      Example-based machine translation (EBMT) approach was proposed by Makoto Nagao in 1984. Example-based machine translation is based on the idea of analogy. In this approach, the corpus that is used is one that contains texts that have already been translated. Given a sentence that is to be translated, sentences from this corpus are selected that contain similar sub-sentential components. The similar sentences are then used to translate the sub-sentential components of the original sentence into the target language, and these phrases are put together to form a complete translation.  
      Hybrid MT 
      
      
       Main article: Hybrid machine translation
       
      Hybrid machine translation (HMT) leverages the strengths of statistical and rule-based translation methodologies. Several MT organizations claim a hybrid approach that uses both rules and statistics. The approaches differ in a number of ways:  
      
       Rules post-processed by statistics: Translations are performed using a rules based engine. Statistics are then used in an attempt to adjust/correct the output from the rules engine. 
       Statistics guided by rules: Rules are used to pre-process data in an attempt to better guide the statistical engine. Rules are also used to post-process the statistical output to perform functions such as normalization. This approach has a lot more power, flexibility and control when translating. It also provides extensive control over the way in which the content is processed during both pre-translation (e.g. markup of content and non-translatable terms) and post-translation (e.g. post translation corrections and adjustments).
       
      More recently, with the advent of Neural MT, a new version of hybrid machine translation is emerging that combines the benefits of rules, statistical and neural machine translation. The approach allows benefitting from pre- and post-processing in a rule guided workflow as well as benefitting from NMT and SMT. The downside is the inherent complexity which makes the approach suitable only for specific use cases.  
      Neural MT 
      
      
       Main article: Neural machine translation
       
      A deep learning-based approach to MT, neural machine translation has made rapid progress in recent years, and Google has announced its translation services are now using this technology in preference over its previous statistical methods. A Microsoft team claimed to have reached human parity on WMT-2017 ("EMNLP 2017 Second Conference On Machine Translation") in 2018, marking a historical milestone. However, many researchers have criticized this claim, rerunning and discussing their experiments; current consensus is that the so-called human parity achieved is not real, being based wholly on limited domains, language pairs, and certain test suits- i.e., it lacks statistical significance power. There is still a long journey before NMT reaches real human parity performances. 
      To address the idiomatic phrase translation, multi-word expressions, and low-frequency words (also called OOV, or out-of-vocabulary word translation), language-focused linguistic features have been explored in state-of-the-art neural machine translation (NMT) models. For instance, the Chinese character decompositions into radicals and strokes have proven to be helpful for translating multi-word expressions in NMT.  
      Major issues 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Machine translation could produce some non-understandable phrases.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Broken Chinese "沒有進入" from machine translation in Bali, Indonesia. The broken Chinese sentence sounds like "there does not exist an entry" or "have not entered yet"
        
       
       
      Disambiguation 
      
      
       Main articles: Word sense disambiguation and Syntactic disambiguation
       
      Word-sense disambiguation concerns finding a suitable translation when a word can have more than one meaning. The problem was first raised in the 1950s by Yehoshua Bar-Hillel. He pointed out that without a "universal encyclopedia", a machine would never be able to distinguish between the two meanings of a word. Today there are numerous approaches designed to overcome this problem. They can be approximately divided into "shallow" approaches and "deep" approaches. 
      Shallow approaches assume no knowledge of the text. They simply apply statistical methods to the words surrounding the ambiguous word. Deep approaches presume a comprehensive knowledge of the word. So far, shallow approaches have been more successful. 
      Claude Piron, a long-time translator for the United Nations and the World Health Organization, wrote that machine translation, at its best, automates the easier part of a translator's job; the harder and more time-consuming part usually involves doing extensive research to resolve ambiguities in the source text, which the grammatical and lexical exigencies of the target language require to be resolved:  
      
      
       Why does a translator need a whole workday to translate five pages, and not an hour or two? ..... About 90% of an average text corresponds to these simple conditions. But unfortunately, there's the other 10%. It's that part that requires six  hours of work. There are ambiguities one has to resolve. For instance, the author of the source text, an Australian physician, cited the example of an epidemic which was declared during World War II in a "Japanese prisoners of war camp". Was he talking about an American camp with Japanese prisoners or a Japanese camp with American prisoners? The English has two senses. It's necessary therefore to do research, maybe to the extent of a phone call to Australia. 
       
      The ideal deep approach would require the translation software to do all the research necessary for this kind of disambiguation on its own; but this would require a higher degree of AI than has yet been attained. A shallow approach which simply guessed at the sense of the ambiguous English phrase that Piron mentions (based, perhaps, on which kind of prisoner-of-war camp is more often mentioned in a given corpus) would have a reasonable chance of guessing wrong fairly often. A shallow approach that involves "ask the user about each ambiguity" would, by Piron's estimate, only automate about 25% of a professional translator's job, leaving the harder 75% still to be done by a human.  
      Non-standard speech 
      One of the major pitfalls of MT is its inability to translate non-standard language with the same accuracy as standard language. Heuristic or statistical based MT takes input from various sources in standard form of a language. Rule-based translation, by nature, does not include common non-standard usages. This causes errors in translation from a vernacular source or into colloquial language. Limitations on translation from casual speech present issues in the use of machine translation in mobile devices.  
      Named entities 
      
      
       Main article: Named entity
       
      In information extraction, named entities, in a narrow sense, refer to concrete or abstract entities in the real world such as people, organizations, companies, and places that have a proper name: George Washington, Chicago, Microsoft. It also refers to expressions of time, space and quantity such as 1 July 2011, $500. 
      In the sentence "Smith is the president of Fabrionix" both Smith and Fabrionix are named entities, and can be further qualified via first name or other information; "president" is not, since Smith could have earlier held another position at Fabrionix, e.g. Vice President. The term rigid designator is what defines these usages for analysis in statistical machine translation. 
      Named entities must first be identified in the text; if not, they may be erroneously translated as common nouns, which would most likely not affect the BLEU rating of the translation but would change the text's human readability. They may be omitted from the output translation, which would also have implications for the text's readability and message. 
      Transliteration includes finding the letters in the target language that most closely correspond to the name in the source language. This, however, has been cited as sometimes worsening the quality of translation. For "Southern California" the first word should be translated directly, while the second word should be transliterated. Machines often transliterate both because they treated them as one entity. Words like these are hard for machine translators, even those with a transliteration component, to process. 
      Use of a "do-not-translate" list, which has the same end goal – transliteration as opposed to translation. still relies on correct identification of named entities. 
      A third approach is a class-based model. Named entities are replaced with a token to represent their "class"; "Ted" and "Erica" would both be replaced with "person" class token. Then the statistical distribution and use of person names, in general, can be analyzed instead of looking at the distributions of "Ted" and "Erica" individually, so that the probability of a given name in a specific language will not affect the assigned probability of a translation. A study by Stanford on improving this area of translation gives the examples that different probabilities will be assigned to "David is going for a walk" and "Ankit is going for a walk" for English as a target language due to the different number of occurrences for each name in the training data. A frustrating outcome of the same study by Stanford (and other attempts to improve named recognition translation) is that many times, a decrease in the BLEU scores for translation will result from the inclusion of methods for named entity translation. 
      Somewhat related are the phrases "drinking tea with milk" vs. "drinking tea with Molly."  
      Translation from multiparallel sources 
      Some work has been done in the utilization of multiparallel corpora, that is a body of text that has been translated into 3 or more languages. Using these methods, a text that has been translated into 2 or more languages may be utilized in combination to provide a more accurate translation into a third language compared with if just one of those source languages were used alone.  
      Ontologies in MT 
      An ontology is a formal representation of knowledge that includes the concepts (such as objects, processes etc.) in a domain and some relations between them. If the stored information is of linguistic nature, one can speak of a lexicon. In NLP, ontologies can be used as a source of knowledge for machine translation systems. With access to a large knowledge base, systems can be enabled to resolve many (especially lexical) ambiguities on their own. In the following classic examples, as humans, we are able to interpret the prepositional phrase according to the context because we use our world knowledge, stored in our lexicons:  
      
       I saw a man/star/molecule with a microscope/telescope/binoculars.
       
      A machine translation system initially would not be able to differentiate between the meanings because syntax does not change. With a large enough ontology as a source of knowledge however, the possible interpretations of ambiguous words in a specific context can be reduced. Other areas of usage for ontologies within NLP include information retrieval, information extraction and text summarization.  
      Building ontologies 
      The ontology generated for the PANGLOSS knowledge-based machine translation system in 1993 may serve as an example of how an ontology for NLP purposes can be compiled:  
      
       A large-scale ontology is necessary to help parsing in the active modules of the machine translation system. 
       In the PANGLOSS example, about 50,000 nodes were intended to be subsumed under the smaller, manually-built upper (abstract) region of the ontology. Because of its size, it had to be created automatically. 
       The goal was to merge the two resources LDOCE online and WordNet to combine the benefits of both: concise definitions from Longman, and semantic relations allowing for semi-automatic taxonomization to the ontology from WordNet. 
        
         A definition match algorithm was created to automatically merge the correct meanings of ambiguous words between the two online resources, based on the words that the definitions of those meanings have in common in LDOCE and WordNet. Using a similarity matrix, the algorithm delivered matches between meanings including a confidence factor. This algorithm alone, however, did not match all meanings correctly on its own. 
         A second hierarchy match algorithm was therefore created which uses the taxonomic hierarchies found in WordNet (deep hierarchies) and partially in LDOCE (flat hierarchies). This works by first matching unambiguous meanings, then limiting the search space to only the respective ancestors and descendants of those matched meanings. Thus, the algorithm matched locally unambiguous meanings (for instance, while the word seal as such is ambiguous, there is only one meaning of seal in the animal subhierarchy).
         
       Both algorithms complemented each other and helped constructing a large-scale ontology for the machine translation system. The WordNet hierarchies, coupled with the matching definitions of LDOCE, were subordinated to the ontology's upper region. As a result, the PANGLOSS MT system was able to make use of this knowledge base, mainly in its generation element.
       
      Applications 
      While no system provides the holy grail of fully automatic high-quality machine translation of unrestricted text, many fully automated systems produce reasonable output. The quality of machine translation is substantially improved if the domain is restricted and controlled. 
      Despite their inherent limitations, MT programs are used around the world. Probably the largest institutional user is the European Commission. The MOLTO project, for example, coordinated by the University of Gothenburg, received more than 2.375 million euros project support from the EU to create a reliable translation tool that covers a majority of the EU languages. The further development of MT systems comes at a time when budget cuts in human translation may increase the EU's dependency on reliable MT programs. The European Commission contributed 3.072 million euros (via its ISA programme) for the creation of MT@EC, a statistical machine translation program tailored to the administrative needs of the EU, to replace a previous rule-based machine translation system. 
      In 2005, Google claimed that promising results were obtained using a proprietary statistical machine translation engine. The statistical translation engine used in the Google language tools for Arabic &lt;-&gt; English and Chinese &lt;-&gt; English had an overall score of 0.4281 over the runner-up IBM's BLEU-4 score of 0.3954 (Summer 2006) in tests conducted by the National Institute for Standards and Technology. 
      With the recent focus on terrorism, the military sources in the United States have been investing significant amounts of money in natural language engineering. In-Q-Tel (a venture capital fund, largely funded by the US Intelligence Community, to stimulate new technologies through private sector entrepreneurs) brought up companies like Language Weaver. Currently the military community is interested in translation and processing of languages like Arabic, Pashto, and Dari. Within these languages, the focus is on key phrases and quick communication between military members and civilians through the use of mobile phone apps. The Information Processing Technology Office in DARPA hosts programs like TIDES and Babylon translator. US Air Force has awarded a $1 million contract to develop a language translation technology. 
      The notable rise of social networking on the web in recent years has created yet another niche for the application of machine translation software – in utilities such as Facebook, or instant messaging clients such as Skype, GoogleTalk, MSN Messenger, etc. – allowing users speaking different languages to communicate with each other. Machine translation applications have also been released for most mobile devices, including mobile telephones, pocket PCs, PDAs, etc. Due to their portability, such instruments have come to be designated as mobile translation tools enabling mobile business networking between partners speaking different languages, or facilitating both foreign language learning and unaccompanied traveling to foreign countries without the need of the intermediation of a human translator. 
      Despite being labelled as an unworthy competitor to human translation in 1966 by the Automated Language Processing Advisory Committee put together by the United States government, the quality of machine translation has now been improved to such levels that its application in online collaboration and in the medical field are being investigated. The application of this technology in medical settings where human translators are absent is another topic of research, but difficulties arise due to the importance of accurate translations in medical diagnoses.  
      Evaluation 
      
      
       Main article: Evaluation of machine translation
       
      There are many factors that affect how machine translation systems are evaluated. These factors include the intended use of the translation, the nature of the machine translation software, and the nature of the translation process. 
      Different programs may work well for different purposes. For example, statistical machine translation (SMT) typically outperforms example-based machine translation (EBMT), but researchers found that when evaluating English to French translation, EBMT performs better. The same concept applies for technical documents, which can be more easily translated by SMT because of their formal language. 
      In certain applications, however, e.g., product descriptions written in a controlled language, a dictionary-based machine-translation system has produced satisfactory translations that require no human intervention save for quality inspection. 
      There are various means for evaluating the output quality of machine translation systems. The oldest is the use of human judges to assess a translation's quality. Even though human evaluation is time-consuming, it is still the most reliable method to compare different systems such as rule-based and statistical systems. Automated means of evaluation include BLEU, NIST, METEOR, and LEPOR. 
      Relying exclusively on unedited machine translation ignores the fact that communication in human language is context-embedded and that it takes a person to comprehend the context of the original text with a reasonable degree of probability. It is certainly true that even purely human-generated translations are prone to error. Therefore, to ensure that a machine-generated translation will be useful to a human being and that publishable-quality translation is achieved, such translations must be reviewed and edited by a human. The late Claude Piron wrote that machine translation, at its best, automates the easier part of a translator's job; the harder and more time-consuming part usually involves doing extensive research to resolve ambiguities in the source text, which the grammatical and lexical exigencies of the target language require to be resolved. Such research is a necessary prelude to the pre-editing necessary in order to provide input for machine-translation software such that the output will not be meaningless. 
      In addition to disambiguation problems, decreased accuracy can occur due to varying levels of training data for machine translating programs. Both example-based and statistical machine translation rely on a vast array of real example sentences as a base for translation, and when too many or too few sentences are analyzed accuracy is jeopardized. Researchers found that when a program is trained on 203,529 sentence pairings, accuracy actually decreases. The optimal level of training data seems to be just over 100,000 sentences, possibly because as training data increases, the number of possible sentences increases, making it harder to find an exact translation match.  
      Using machine translation as a teaching tool 
      Although there have been concerns about machine translation's accuracy, Dr. Ana Nino of the University of Manchester has researched some of the advantages in utilizing machine translation in the classroom. One such pedagogical method is called using "MT as a Bad Model." MT as a Bad Model forces the language learner to identify inconsistencies or incorrect aspects of a translation; in turn, the individual will (hopefully) possess a better grasp of the language. Dr. Nino cites that this teaching tool was implemented in the late 1980s. At the end of various semesters, Dr. Nino was able to obtain survey results from students who had used MT as a Bad Model (as well as other models.) Overwhelmingly, students felt that they had observed improved comprehension, lexical retrieval, and increased confidence in their target language.  
      Machine translation and signed languages 
      
      
       Main article: Machine translation of sign languages
       
      In the early 2000s, options for machine translation between spoken and signed languages were severely limited. It was a common belief that deaf individuals could use traditional translators. However, stress, intonation, pitch, and timing are conveyed much differently in spoken languages compared to signed languages. Therefore, a deaf individual may misinterpret or become confused about the meaning of written text that is based on a spoken language. 
      Researchers Zhao, et al. (2000), developed a prototype called TEAM (translation from English to ASL by machine) that completed English to American Sign Language (ASL) translations. The program would first analyze the syntactic, grammatical, and morphological aspects of the English text. Following this step, the program accessed a sign synthesizer, which acted as a dictionary for ASL. This synthesizer housed the process one must follow to complete ASL signs, as well as the meanings of these signs. Once the entire text is analyzed and the signs necessary to complete the translation are located in the synthesizer, a computer generated human appeared and would use ASL to sign the English text to the user.  
      Copyright 
      Only works that are original are subject to copyright protection, so some scholars claim that machine translation results are not entitled to copyright protection because MT does not involve creativity. The copyright at issue is for a derivative work; the author of the original work in the original language does not lose his rights when a work is translated: a translator must have permission to publish a translation.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        AI-complete 
        Cache language model 
        Comparison of machine translation applications 
        Comparison of different machine translation approaches 
        Computational linguistics 
        Computer-assisted translation and Translation memory 
        Controlled language in machine translation 
        Controlled natural language 
        Foreign language writing aid 
        Fuzzy matching 
        History of machine translation 
        Human language technology 
        Humour in translation ("howlers") 
        Language and Communication Technologies 
        Language barrier 
        List of emerging technologies 
        List of research laboratories for machine translation 
        Mobile translation 
        Neural machine translation 
        OpenLogos 
        Phraselator 
        Postediting 
        Pseudo-translation 
        Round-trip translation 
        Statistical machine translation 
        Translation §&nbsp;Machine translation 
        Translation memory 
        ULTRA (machine translation system) 
        Universal Networking Language 
        Universal translator
        
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c d e Stephen Budiansky (December 1998). "Lost in Translation". Atlantic Magazine. pp.&nbsp;81–84.  
         ^ Albat, Thomas Fritz. "Systems and Methods for Automatically Estimating a Translation Time." US Patent 0185235, 19 July 2012.  
         ^ 
           Yehoshua Bar-Hillel (1964). Language and Information: Selected Essays on Their Theory and Application. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley. pp.&nbsp;174–179.  
         ^ 
           Madsen, Mathias Winther (2009). The Limits of Machine Translation. M.A. thesis, University of Copenhagen. p.&nbsp;5. Archived from the original on 17 October 2021. Retrieved 12 May 2020.  
         ^ 
           DuPont, Quinn (January 2018). "The Cryptological Origins of Machine Translation: From al-Kindi to Weaver". Amodern (8). Archived from the original on 14 August 2019. Retrieved 2 September 2019.  
         ^ 
           James Knowlson (1975). Universal language schemes in England and France, 1600-1800. University of Toronto Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8020-5296-4.  
         ^ 
           J. Hutchins (2000). "Warren Weaver and the launching of MT". Early Years in Machine Translation (PDF). Semantic Scholar. Studies in the History of the Language Sciences. Vol.&nbsp;97. p.&nbsp;17. doi:10.1075/sihols.97.05hut. ISBN&nbsp;978-90-272-4586-1. S2CID&nbsp;163460375. Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 February 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Warren Weaver, American mathematician". 13 July 2020. Archived from the original on 6 March 2021. Retrieved 7 August 2020.  
         ^ 
           上野, 俊夫 (13 August 1986). パーソナルコンピュータによる機械翻訳プログラムの制作 (in Japanese). Tokyo: (株)ラッセル社. p.&nbsp;16. ISBN&nbsp;494762700X. わが国では1956年、当時の電気試験所が英和翻訳専用機「ヤマト」を実験している。この機械は1962年頃には中学1年の教科書で90点以上の能力に達したと報告されている。(translation (assisted by Google translate): In 1959 Japan, the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology(AIST) tested the proper English-Japanese translation machine Yamato, which reported in 1964 as that reached the power level over the score of 90-point on the textbook of first grade of junior hi-school.)  
         ^ 
           "機械翻訳専用機「やまと」-コンピュータ博物館". Archived from the original on 19 October 2016. Retrieved 4 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Nye, Mary Jo (2016). "Speaking in Tongues: Science's centuries-long hunt for a common language". Distillations. 2 (1): 40–43. Archived from the original on 3 August 2020. Retrieved 20 March 2018.  
         ^ 
           Gordin, Michael D. (2015). Scientific Babel: How Science Was Done Before and After Global English. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780226000299.  
         ^ 
           Wolfgang Saxon (28 July 1995). "David G. Hays, 66, a Developer Of Language Study by Computer". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 7 February 2020. Retrieved 7 August 2020. wrote about computer-assisted language processing as early as 1957.. was project leader on computational linguistics at Rand from 1955 to 1968.  
         ^ 
           上野, 俊夫 (13 August 1986). パーソナルコンピュータによる機械翻訳プログラムの制作 (in Japanese). Tokyo: (株)ラッセル社. p.&nbsp;16. ISBN&nbsp;494762700X.  
         ^ 
           Schank, Roger C. (2014). Conceptual Information Processing. New York: Elsevier. p.&nbsp;5. ISBN&nbsp;9781483258799.  
         ^ 
           Farwell, David; Gerber, Laurie; Hovy, Eduard (29 June 2003). Machine Translation and the Information Soup: Third Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas, AMTA'98, Langhorne, PA, USA, October 28–31, 1998 Proceedings. Berlin: Springer. p.&nbsp;276. ISBN&nbsp;3540652590.  
         ^ 
           Barron, Brenda (18 November 2019). "Babel Fish: What Happened To The Original Translation Application?: We Investigate". Digital.com. Archived from the original on 20 November 2019. Retrieved 22 November 2019.  
         ^ and gave other examples too  
         ^ 
           Chan, Sin-Wai (2015). Routledge Encyclopedia of Translation Technology. Oxon: Routledge. p.&nbsp;385. ISBN&nbsp;9780415524841.  
         ^ Bai Liping, "Similarity and difference in Translation." Taken from Similarity and Difference in Translation: Proceedings of the International Conference on Similarity and Translation Archived 5 August 2020 at the Wayback Machine, pg. 339. Eds. Stefano Arduini and Robert Hodgson. 2nd ed. Rome: Edizioni di storia e letteratura, 2007. 
           ISBN&nbsp;9788884983749  
         ^ 
           John Lehrberger (1988). Machine Translation: Linguistic Characteristics of MT Systems and General Methodology of Evaluation. John Benjamins Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;90-272-3124-9. Archived from the original on 17 October 2021. Retrieved 18 October 2020.  
         ^ 
           Chitu, Alex (22 October 2007). "Google Switches to Its Own Translation System". Googlesystem.blogspot.com. Archived from the original on 29 April 2017. Retrieved 13 August 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Google Translator: The Universal Language". Blog.outer-court.com. 25 January 2007. Archived from the original on 20 November 2008. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Inside Google Translate – Google Translate". Archived from the original on 16 April 2014. Retrieved 14 April 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Mt-Archive - The Source For Tech Advice" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 13 April 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2013.  
         ^ Nagao, M. 1981. A Framework of a Mechanical Translation between Japanese and English by Analogy Principle, in Artificial and Human Intelligence, A. Elithorn and R. Banerji (eds.) North- Holland, pp. 173–180, 1984.  
         ^ 
           "the Association for Computational Linguistics – 2003 ACL Lifetime Achievement Award". Association for Computational Linguistics. Archived from the original on 12 June 2010. Retrieved 10 March 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Kitt.cl.uzh.ch " (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 7 January 2014. Retrieved 18 November 2013.  
         ^ 
           Adam Boretz (2 March 2009). "Boretz, Adam, "AppTek Launches Hybrid Machine Translation Software" SpeechTechMag.com (posted 2 MAR 2009)". Speechtechmag.com. Archived from the original on 9 June 2009. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Google's neural network learns to translate languages it hasn't been trained on". Archived from the original on 1 September 2017. Retrieved 4 September 2017.  
         ^ 
           Linn, Allison (14 March 2018). "Microsoft reaches a historic milestone, using AI to match human performance in translating news from Chinese to English". Archived from the original on 2 March 2019. Retrieved 21 April 2021.  
         ^ Hany Hassan et al. (2018) Achieving Human Parity on Automatic Chinese to English News Translation. | url=https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.05567.pdf Archived 10 May 2021 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Antonio Toral, Sheila Castilho, Ke Hu, and Andy Way. 2018. Attaining the unattainable? reassessing claims of human parity in neural machine translation. CoRR, abs/1808.10432.  
         ^ Yvette Graham, Barry Haddow, and Philipp Koehn. (2019) Translationese in machine translation evaluation. CoRR, abs/1906.09833.  
         ^ 
           "Multiword Expressions - ACL Wiki". Archived from the original on 8 May 2021. Retrieved 8 May 2021.  
         ^ Han, Lifeng, Jones, Gareth J.F., Smeaton, Alan F. and Bolzoni, Paolo (2021) Chinese character decomposition for neural MT with multi-word expressions. In: 23rd Nordic Conference on Computational Linguistics (NoDaLiDa 2021) | url=https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.04497 Archived 9 May 2021 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Lifeng Han, Shaohui Kuang. (2018) incorporating Chinese Radicals Into Neural Machine Translation: Deeper Than Character Level | url= https://arxiv.org/pdf/1805.01565.pdf Archived 9 May 2021 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Milestones in machine translation – No.6: Bar-Hillel and the nonfeasibility of FAHQT Archived 12 March 2007 at the Wayback Machine by John Hutchins  
         ^ Bar-Hillel (1960), "Automatic Translation of Languages". Available online at http://www.mt-archive.info/Bar-Hillel-1960.pdf Archived 28 September 2011 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           Hybrid approaches to machine translation. Costa-jussà, Marta R., Rapp, Reinhard, Lambert, Patrik, Eberle, Kurt, Banchs, Rafael E., Babych, Bogdan. Switzerland. 21 July 2016. ISBN&nbsp;9783319213101. OCLC&nbsp;953581497.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
         ^ Claude Piron, Le défi des langues (The Language Challenge), Paris, L'Harmattan, 1994.   
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 14 May 2006. Retrieved 4 November 2013.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ Hermajakob, U., Knight, K., &amp; Hal, D. (2008). Name Translation in Statistical Machine Translation Learning When to Transliterate Archived 4 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine. Association for Computational Linguistics. 389–397.  
         ^ a b 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 May 2013. Retrieved 4 November 2013.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 29 June 2016. Retrieved 3 November 2017.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 10 October 2015. Retrieved 3 February 2015.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 April 2014. Retrieved 3 February 2015.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ a b c Vossen, Piek: Ontologies. In: Mitkov, Ruslan (ed.) (2003): Handbook of Computational Linguistics, Chapter 25. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
         ^ 
           Knight, Kevin (1994). "Building a large ontology for machine translation (1993)". arXiv:cmp-lg/9407029. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Melby, Alan. The Possibility of Language (Amsterdam:Benjamins, 1995, 27–41). Benjamins.com. 1995. ISBN&nbsp;9789027216144. Archived from the original on 25 May 2011. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           Adam (14 February 2006). "Wooten, Adam. "A Simple Model Outlining Translation Technology" T&amp;I Business (February 14, 2006)". Tandibusiness.blogspot.com. Archived from the original on 16 July 2012. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Appendix III of 'The present status of automatic translation of languages', Advances in Computers, vol.1 (1960), p.158-163. Reprinted in Y.Bar-Hillel: Language and information (Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1964), p.174-179" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 28 September 2018. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Human quality machine translation solution by Ta with you" (in Spanish). Tauyou.com. 15 April 2009. Archived from the original on 22 September 2009. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "molto-project.eu". molto-project.eu. Archived from the original on 4 May 2010. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           SPIEGEL ONLINE, Hamburg, Germany (13 September 2013). "Google Translate Has Ambitious Goals for Machine Translation". SPIEGEL ONLINE. Archived from the original on 14 September 2013. Retrieved 13 September 2013.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           "Machine Translation Service". 5 August 2011. Archived from the original on 8 September 2013. Retrieved 13 September 2013.  
         ^ Google Blog: The machines do the translating Archived 23 March 2006 at the Wayback Machine (by Franz Och)  
         ^ 
           "Geer, David, "Statistical Translation Gains Respect", pp. 18 – 21, IEEE Computer, October 2005". Ieeexplore.ieee.org. 27 September 2011. doi:10.1109/MC.2005.353. S2CID&nbsp;7088166. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Ratliff, Evan (4 January 2009). "Ratcliff, Evan "Me Translate Pretty One Day", Wired December 2006". Wired. Archived from the original on 14 May 2013. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           ""NIST 2006 Machine Translation Evaluation Official Results", November 1, 2006". Itl.nist.gov. Archived from the original on 17 October 2021. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "In-Q-Tel". In-Q-Tel. Archived from the original on 20 May 2016. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           Gallafent, Alex (26 April 2011). "Machine Translation for the Military". PRI's the World. Archived from the original on 9 May 2013. Retrieved 17 September 2013.  
         ^ 
           Jackson, William (9 September 2003). "GCN – Air force wants to build a universal translator". Gcn.com. Archived from the original on 16 June 2011. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 October 2013. Retrieved 21 October 2013.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           Randhawa, Gurdeeshpal; Ferreyra, Mariella; Ahmed, Rukhsana; Ezzat, Omar; Pottie, Kevin (April 2013). "Using machine translation in clinical practice". Canadian Family Physician. 59 (4): 382–383. Archived from the original on 4 May 2013. Retrieved 21 October 2013.  
         ^ a b 
           Way, Andy; Nano Gough (20 September 2005). "Comparing Example-Based and Statistical Machine Translation". Natural Language Engineering. 11 (3): 295–309. doi:10.1017/S1351324905003888. S2CID&nbsp;3242163.  
         ^ Muegge (2006), "Fully Automatic High Quality Machine Translation of Restricted Text: A Case Study Archived 17 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine," in Translating and the computer 28. Proceedings of the twenty-eighth international conference on translating and the computer, 16–17 November 2006, London, London: Aslib. 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0-85142-483-5.  
         ^ 
           "Comparison of MT systems by human evaluation, May 2008". Morphologic.hu. Archived from the original on 19 April 2012. Retrieved 12 June 2012.  
         ^ Anderson, D.D. (1995). Machine translation as a tool in second language learning Archived 4 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine. CALICO Journal. 13(1). 68–96.  
         ^ Han et al. (2012), "LEPOR: A Robust Evaluation Metric for Machine Translation with Augmented Factors Archived 4 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine," in Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING 2012): Posters, pages 441–450, Mumbai, India.  
         ^ J.M. Cohen observes (p.14): "Scientific translation is the aim of an age that would reduce all activities to techniques. It is impossible however to imagine a literary-translation machine less complex than the human brain itself, with all its knowledge, reading, and discrimination."  
         ^ See the annually performed NIST tests since 2001 Archived 22 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine and Bilingual Evaluation Understudy  
         ^ a b Nino, Ana. "Machine Translation in Foreign Language Learning: Language Learners' and Tutors' Perceptions of Its Advantages and Disadvantages" ReCALL: the Journal of EUROCALL 21.2 (May 2009) 241–258.  
         ^ a b Zhao, L., Kipper, K., Schuler, W., Vogler, C., &amp; Palmer, M. (2000). A Machine Translation System from English to American Sign Language Archived 20 July 2018 at the Wayback Machine. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 1934: 54–67.  
         ^ 
           "Machine Translation: No Copyright On The Result?". SEO Translator, citing Zimbabwe Independent. Archived from the original on 29 November 2012. Retrieved 24 November 2012.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Cohen, J. M. (1986), "Translation", Encyclopedia Americana, vol.&nbsp;27, pp.&nbsp;12–15 
       
        Hutchins, W. John; Somers, Harold L. (1992). An Introduction to Machine Translation. London: Academic Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-12-362830-X. 
       Lewis-Kraus, Gideon, "Tower of Babble", New York Times Magazine, 7 June 2015, pp.&nbsp;48–52. 
       Weber, Steven and Nikita Mehandru. 2021. "The 2020s political economy of machine translation." Business and Politics.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiversity has learning resources about Topic:Computational linguistics
         
       
       
      
       The Advantages and Disadvantages of Machine Translation 
       International Association for Machine Translation (IAMT) 
       Machine Translation Archive by John Hutchins. An electronic repository (and bibliography) of articles, books and papers in the field of machine translation and computer-based translation technology 
       Machine translation (computer-based translation) – Publications by John Hutchins (includes PDFs of several books on machine translation) 
       Machine Translation and Minority Languages 
       John Hutchins 1999
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Translation
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Legal 
             Literary 
             Bible 
             Quran 
             Kural 
             Linguistic validation 
             Medical 
             Regulatory 
             Technical 
             Interpretation 
             Cultural 
             Word-for-word 
             Sense-for-sense 
             Homophonic
             
           
         
         
          Theory
          
            
            
             Translation studies 
             Skopos theory 
             Translation project 
             Translation criticism 
             Dynamic and formal equivalence 
             Contrastive linguistics
             
           
         
         
          Technologies
          
            
            
             CAT 
             Machine translation 
             Mobile translation 
             Translation management system 
             Dubbing 
             Subtitling 
             Pre-editing 
             Postediting 
             Multimedia translation
             
           
         
         
          Localization
          
            
            
             Glocalization 
             Internationalization and localization 
             Language localization 
             Video game localization 
             Dub localization 
             Website localization 
             Software localization
             
           
         
         
          Institutional
          
            
            
             Associations 
             Awards 
             Organizations 
             Schools
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Transcription 
             Transliteration 
             Video relay service (VRS) 
             Telephone interpreting 
             Language barrier 
             Fan translation 
             Fansub 
             Fandub 
             Scanlation 
             Journalistic translation 
             Books and magazines on translation 
             Bible translations by language 
             Translated books 
              
               List of most translated works
               
             Translators 
             Kural translations by language
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Approaches to machine translation
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Dictionary-based 
             Rule-based 
             Transfer-based 
             Statistical 
             Example-based 
             Interlingual 
             Neural 
             Hybrid
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Emerging technologies
           
         
         
          Fields
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Information andcommunications
               
              
                
                
                 Ambient intelligence 
                  
                   Internet of things
                   
                 Artificial intelligence 
                  
                   Applications of artificial intelligence 
                   Progress in artificial intelligence 
                   Machine translation 
                   Mobile translation 
                   Machine vision 
                   Semantic Web 
                   Speech recognition
                   
                 Atomtronics 
                 Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor 
                 Cybermethodology 
                 Fourth-generation optical discs 
                  
                   3D optical data storage 
                   Holographic data storage
                   
                 GPGPU 
                 Memory 
                  
                   CBRAM 
                   FRAM 
                   Millipede 
                   MRAM 
                   NRAM 
                   PRAM 
                   Racetrack memory 
                   RRAM 
                   SONOS 
                   ECRAM
                   
                 Optical computing 
                 RFID 
                  
                   Chipless RFID
                   
                 Software-defined radio 
                 Three-dimensional integrated circuit
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Topics
          
            
            
             Collingridge dilemma 
             Differential technological development 
             Disruptive innovation 
             Ephemeralization 
             Ethics 
              
               Bioethics 
               Cyberethics 
               Neuroethics 
               Robot ethics
               
             Exploratory engineering 
             Fictional technology 
             Proactionary principle 
             Technological change 
              
               Technological unemployment
               
             Technological convergence 
             Technological evolution 
             Technological paradigm 
             Technology forecasting 
              
               Accelerating change 
               Horizon scanning 
               Moore's law 
               Technological singularity 
               Technology scouting
               
             Technology readiness level 
             Technology roadmap 
             Transhumanism
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              List
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Machine_translation&amp;oldid=1069765778"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Machine translation
       Artificial intelligence applications
       Computational linguistics
       Computer-assisted translation
       Tasks of natural language processing
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: others
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from July 2014
       All articles with failed verification
       Articles with failed verification from December 2017
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2018
       Articles containing Chinese-language text
       Articles with unsourced statements from February 2007
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Кыргызча
       Latgaļu
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       Bahasa Melayu
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       پنجابی
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Sardu
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 4 February 2022, at 00:02&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
