
 
  
   
  Design - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Design 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Drafting of a plan or specification for the construction of an object or of a system; process of creation; act of creativity and innovation
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Design (disambiguation).
       
      A design is a plan or specification for the construction of an object or system or for the implementation of an activity or process, or the result of that plan or specification in the form of a prototype, product or process. The verb to design expresses the process of developing a design. In some cases, the direct construction of an object without an explicit prior plan (such as in craftwork, some engineering, coding, and graphic design) may also be considered to be a design activity. The design usually has to satisfy certain goals and constraints, may take into account aesthetic, functional, economic, or socio-political considerations, and is expected to interact with a certain environment. Major examples of designs include architectural blueprints, engineering drawings, business processes, circuit diagrams, and sewing patterns. 
      The person who produces a design is called a designer, which is a term generally used for people who work professionally in one of the various design areas—usually specifying which area is being dealt with (such as a fashion designer, product designer, web designer or interior designer), but also others such as architects and engineers. A designer's sequence of activities is called a design process, possibly using design methods. The process of creating a design can be brief (a quick sketch) or lengthy and complicated, involving considerable research, negotiation, reflection, modeling, interactive adjustment and re-design.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Process 
          
          1.1 Rational model 
            
            1.1.1 Example sequence of stages 
            1.1.2 Criticism of the rational model 
             
          1.2 Action-centric model 
            
            1.2.1 Descriptions of design activities 
             
           
        2 Philosophies 
          
          2.1 Approaches to design 
           
        3 Types 
          
          3.1 Art 
          3.2 Engineering 
          3.3 Production 
          3.4 Process design 
           
        4 Design disciplines 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Bibliography 
        
       
      Process 
      Substantial disagreement exists concerning how designers in many fields, whether amateur or professional, alone or in teams, produce designs. Kees Dorst and Judith Dijkhuis, both designers themselves, argued that "there are many ways of describing design processes" and discussed "two basic and fundamentally different ways", both of which have several names. The prevailing view has been called "the rational model", "technical problem solving" and "the reason-centric perspective". The alternative view has been called "reflection-in-action", "co-evolution", and "the action-centric perspective".  
      Rational model 
      The rational model was independently developed by Herbert A. Simon, an American scientist, and two German engineering design theorists, Gerhard Pahl and Wolfgang Beitz. It posits that:  
      
       Designers attempt to optimize a design candidate for known constraints and objectives. 
       The design process is plan-driven. 
       The design process is understood in terms of a discrete sequence of stages.
       
      The rational model is based on a rationalist philosophy and underlies the waterfall model, systems development life cycle, and much of the engineering design literature. According to the rationalist philosophy, design is informed by research and knowledge in a predictable and controlled manner.  
      Example sequence of stages 
      Typical stages consistent with the rational model include the following:  
      
       Pre-production design 
        
         Design brief or Parti pris&nbsp;– an early (often the beginning) statement of design goals 
         Analysis&nbsp;– analysis of current design goals 
         Research&nbsp;– investigating similar design solutions in the field or related topics 
         Specification&nbsp;– specifying requirements of a design solution for a product (product design specification) or service. 
         Problem solving&nbsp;– conceptualizing and documenting design solutions 
         Presentation&nbsp;– presenting design solutions
         
       Design during production 
        
         Development&nbsp;– continuation and improvement of a designed solution 
         Testing&nbsp;– in situ testing of a designed solution
         
       Post-production design feedback for future designs 
        
         Implementation&nbsp;– introducing the designed solution into the environment 
         Evaluation and conclusion&nbsp;– summary of process and results, including constructive criticism and suggestions for future improvements
         
       Redesign&nbsp;– any or all stages in the design process repeated (with corrections made) at any time before, during, or after production.
       
      Each stage has many associated best practices.  
      Criticism of the rational model 
      The rational model has been widely criticized on two primary grounds:  
      
       Designers do not work this way&nbsp;– extensive empirical evidence has demonstrated that designers do not act as the rational model suggests. 
       Unrealistic assumptions&nbsp;– goals are often unknown when a design project begins, and the requirements and constraints continue to change.
       
      Action-centric model 
      The action-centric perspective is a label given to a collection of interrelated concepts, which are antithetical to the rational model. It posits that:  
      
       Designers use creativity and emotion to generate design candidates. 
       The design process is improvised. 
       No universal sequence of stages is apparent&nbsp;– analysis, design and implementation are contemporary and inextricably linked.
       
      The action-centric perspective is based on an empiricist philosophy and broadly consistent with the agile approach and a methodical development. Substantial empirical evidence supports the veracity of this perspective in describing the actions of real designers. Like the rational model, the action-centric model sees design as informed by research and knowledge. However, research and knowledge are brought into the design process through the judgment and common sense of designers&nbsp;– by designers "thinking on their feet"&nbsp;– more than through the predictable and controlled process stipulated by the rational model.  
      Descriptions of design activities 
      At least two views of design activity are consistent with the action-centric perspective. Both involve three basic activities. 
      In the reflection-in-action paradigm, designers alternate between "framing", "making moves", and "evaluating moves". "Framing" refers to conceptualizing the problem, i.e., defining goals and objectives. A "move" is a tentative design decision. The evaluation process may lead to further moves in the design. 
      In the sensemaking–coevolution–implementation framework, designers alternate between its three titular activities. Sensemaking includes both framing and evaluating moves. Implementation is the process of constructing the design object. Coevolution is "the process where the design agent simultaneously refines its mental picture of the design object based on its mental picture of the context, and vice versa". 
      The concept of the design cycle is understood as a circular time structure, which may start with the thinking of an idea, then expressing it by the use of visual or verbal means of communication (design tools), the sharing and perceiving of the expressed idea, and finally starting a new cycle with the critical rethinking of the perceived idea. Anderson points out that this concept emphasizes the importance of the means of expression, which at the same time are means of perception of any design ideas.  
      Philosophies 
      
      
       Main article: Philosophy of design
       
      Philosophy of design is the study of definitions of design, and the assumptions, foundations, and implications of design. There are also countless informal or personal philosophies for guiding design as design values and its accompanying aspects within modern design vary, both between different schools of thought and among practicing designers. Design philosophies are usually for determining design goals. In this sense, design philosophies are fundamental guiding principles that dictate how a designer approaches his/her practice. For example, reflections on material culture and environmental concerns (sustainable design) can guide a design philosophy.  
      Approaches to design 
      A design approach is a general philosophy that may or may not include a guide for specific methods. Some are to guide the overall goal of the design. Other approaches are to guide the tendencies of the designer. 
      Some of these approaches include:  
      
       Critical design uses designed artifacts as an embodied critique or commentary on existing values, morals, and practices in a culture. 
       Participatory Design (originally co-operative design, now often co-design) is the practice of collective creativity to design, attempting to actively involve all stakeholders (e.g. employees, partners, customers, citizens, end users) in the design process to help ensure the result meets their needs and is usable. 
       Scientific design refers to industrialised design based on scientific knowledge. Science can be used to study the effects and need for a potential or existing product in general and to design products that are based on scientific knowledge. For instance, a scientific design of face masks for COVID-19 mitigation may be based on investigations of filtration performance, mitigation performance, thermal comfort, biodegradability and flow resistance. 
       Service design designing or organizing the experience around a product and the service associated with a product's use. 
       Sociotechnical system design, a philosophy and tools for participative designing of work arrangements and supporting processes – for organizational purpose, quality, safety, economics and customer requirements in core work processes, the quality of peoples experience at work and the needs of society 
       Transgenerational design, the practice of making products and environments compatible with those physical and sensory impairments associated with human aging and which limit major activities of daily living. 
       User-centered design, which focuses on the needs, wants, and limitations of the end user of the designed artifact.
       
      Types 
      Design can broadly be applied to various fields such as art, engineering and production.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A terminal at Barajas airport in Madrid, Spain
        
       
       
      Art 
      Today, the term design is generally used for what was formerly called the applied arts. The new term, for a very old thing, was perhaps initiated by Raymond Loewy and teachings at the Bauhaus and Ulm School of Design in Germany during the 20th century. 
      The boundaries between art and design are blurred, largely due to a range of applications both for the term 'art' and the term 'design'. Applied arts can include industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, and the decorative arts which traditionally includes craft objects. In graphic arts (2D image making that ranges from photography to illustration), the distinction is often made between fine art and commercial art, based on the context within which the work is produced and how it is traded. 
      Some methods for creating work, such as employing intuition, are shared across the disciplines within the applied arts and fine art. Mark Getlein, writer, suggests the principles of design are "almost instinctive", "built-in", "natural", and part of "our sense of 'rightness'." However, the intended application and context of the resulting works will vary greatly.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A drawing for a booster engine for steam locomotives. Engineering is applied to design, with emphasis on function and the utilization of mathematics and science.
        
       
       
      Engineering 
      In engineering, design is a component of the process. Many overlapping methods and processes can be seen when comparing product design, industrial design and engineering. The American Heritage Dictionary defines design as: "To conceive or fashion in the mind; invent," and "To formulate a plan", and defines engineering as: "The application of scientific and mathematical principles to practical ends such as the design, manufacture, and operation of efficient and economical structures, machines, processes, and systems.". Both are forms of problem-solving with a defined distinction being the application of "scientific and mathematical principles". The increasingly scientific focus of engineering in practice, however, has raised the importance of more new "human-centered" fields of design. How much science is applied in a design is a question of what is considered "science". Along with the question of what is considered science, there is social science versus natural science. Scientists at Xerox PARC made the distinction of design versus engineering at "moving minds" versus "moving atoms" (probably in contradiction to the origin of term "engineering – engineer" from Latin "in genio" in meaning of a "genius" what assumes existence of a "mind" not of an "atom").  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Jonathan Ive has received several awards for his design of Apple Inc. products like this MacBook. In some design fields, personal computers are also used for both design and production
        
       
       
      Production 
      The relationship between design and production is one of planning and executing. In theory, the plan should anticipate and compensate for potential problems in the execution process. Design involves problem-solving and creativity. In contrast, production involves a routine or pre-planned process. A design may also be a mere plan that does not include a production or engineering processes although a working knowledge of such processes is usually expected of designers. In some cases, it may be unnecessary or impractical to expect a designer with a broad multidisciplinary knowledge required for such designs to also have a detailed specialized knowledge of how to produce the product. 
      Design and production are intertwined in many creative professional careers, meaning problem-solving is part of execution and the reverse. As the cost of rearrangement increases, the need for separating design from production increases as well. For example, a high-budget project, such as a skyscraper, requires separating (design) architecture from (production) construction. A Low-budget project, such as a locally printed office party invitation flyer, can be rearranged and printed dozens of times at the low cost of a few sheets of paper, few drops of ink, and less than one hour's pay of a desktop publisher. 
      This is not to say that production never involves problem-solving or creativity, nor that design always involves creativity. Designs are rarely perfect and are sometimes repetitive. The imperfection of a design may task a production position (e.g. production artist, construction worker) with utilizing creativity or problem-solving skills to compensate for what was overlooked in the design process. Likewise, a design may be a simple repetition (copy) of a known preexisting solution, requiring minimal, if any, creativity or problem-solving skills from the designer.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An example of a business workflow process using Business Process Model and Notation.
        
       
       
      Process design 
      
      
       See also: Business process management and Method engineering
       
      "Process design" (in contrast to "design process" mentioned above) is to the planning of routine steps of a process aside from the expected result. Processes (in general) are treated as a product of design, not the method of design. The term originated with the industrial designing of chemical processes. With the increasing complexities of the information age, consultants and executives have found the term useful to describe the design of business processes as well as manufacturing processes.  
      Design disciplines 
      
       
       
        Applied arts 
        Architecture 
        Automotive design 
        Biological design 
        Cartographic or map design 
        Configuration design 
        Communication design 
        Costume design 
        Design management 
        Ecological design 
        Engineering design 
        Experience design 
        Fashion design 
        Floral design 
        Game design 
        Graphic design 
        Information architecture 
        Information design 
        Industrial design 
        Instructional design 
        Interaction design 
        Interior design 
        Landscape architecture 
        Lighting design 
        Modular design 
        Motion graphic design 
        Organization design 
        Process design 
        Product design 
        Production design 
        Property design 
        Scenic design 
        Service design 
        Social design 
        Software design 
        Sound design 
        Spatial design 
        Strategic design 
        Systems architecture 
        Systems design 
        Systems modeling 
        Urban design 
        User experience design 
        User interface design 
        Vexillography 
        Web design
       
       
      See also 
      
       Design-based learning 
       Design methods 
       Design research 
       Design science 
       Design theory 
       Design thinking 
       Design prototyping 
       Evidence-based design 
       Visual design elements and principles 
       List of design awards
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Dictionary meanings in the Cambridge Dictionary of American English, at Dictionary.com (esp. meanings 1–5 and 7–8) and at AskOxford (especially verbs).  
        ^ Coyne, Richard (1990). "Logic of design actions". Knowledge-Based Systems. 3 (4): 242–257. doi:10.1016/0950-7051(90)90103-o. ISSN&nbsp;0950-7051.  
        ^ 
          Dorst, Kees; Dijkhuis, Judith (1995). "Comparing paradigms for describing design activity". Design Studies. 16 (2): 261–274. doi:10.1016/0142-694X(94)00012-3.  
        ^ a b c Brooks, F.P. (2010) The design of design: Essays from a computer scientist, Addison-Wesley Professional. 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-201-36298-8.  
        ^ a b c d Schön, D.A. (1983) The reflective practitioner: How professionals think in action, Basic Books, USA.  
        ^ a b c d e f Ralph, P. (2010) "Comparing two software design process theories". International Conference on Design Science Research in Information Systems and Technology (DESRIST 2010), Springer, St. Gallen, Switzerland, pp.&nbsp;139–153. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-13335-0_10.  
        ^ 
          Dorst, Kees; Cross, Nigel (2001). "Creativity in the design process: Co-evolution of problem–solution" (PDF). Design Studies. 22 (5): 425–437. doi:10.1016/S0142-694X(01)00009-6.  
        ^ Newell, A., and Simon, H. (1972) Human problem solving, Prentice-Hall, Inc.  
        ^ Simon, H.A. (1996) The sciences of the artificial, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA. p. 111. 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-262-69191-4.  
        ^ Pahl, G., and Beitz, W. (1996) Engineering design: A systematic approach, Springer-Verlag, London. 
          ISBN&nbsp;3-540-19917-9.  
        ^ Royce, W.W. (1970) "Managing the development of large software systems: Concepts and techniques," Proceedings of Wescon.  
        ^ Bourque, P., and Dupuis, R. (eds.) (2004) Guide to the software engineering body of knowledge (SWEBOK). IEEE Computer Society Press, 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-7695-2330-7.  
        ^ Pahl, G., Beitz, W., Feldhusen, J., and Grote, K.-H. (2007 ) Engineering design: A systematic approach, (3rd ed.), Springer-Verlag, 
          ISBN&nbsp;1-84628-318-3.  
        ^ Cross, N., (2006). T211 Design and Designing: Block 2, p. 99. Milton Keynes: The Open University.  
        ^ Ullman, David G. (2009) The Mechanical Design Process, Mc Graw Hill, 4th edition 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-07-297574-1  
        ^ a b Cross, N., Dorst, K., and Roozenburg, N. (1992) Research in design thinking, Delft University Press, Delft. 
          ISBN&nbsp;90-6275-796-0.  
        ^ 
          McCracken, D.D.; Jackson, M.A. (1982). "Life cycle concept considered harmful". ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes. 7 (2): 29–32. doi:10.1145/1005937.1005943. S2CID&nbsp;9323694.  
        ^ Beck, K., Beedle, M., van Bennekum, A., Cockburn, A., Cunningham, W., Fowler, M., Grenning, J., Highsmith, J., Hunt, A., Jeffries, R., Kern, J., Marick, B., Martin, R.C., Mellor, S., Schwaber, K., Sutherland, J., and Thomas, D. (2001) Manifesto for agile software development.  
        ^ 
          Truex, D.; Baskerville, R.; and Travis, J. (2000). "Amethodical systems development: The deferred meaning of systems development methods". Accounting, Management and Information Technologies. 10 (1): 53–79. doi:10.1016/S0959-8022(99)00009-0.  
        ^ Fischer, Thomas "Design Enigma. A typographical metaphor for enigmatic processes, including designing", in: T. Fischer, K. De Biswas, J.J. Ham, R. Naka, W.X. Huang, Beyond Codes and Pixels: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Computer-Aided Architectural Design Research in Asia, p. 686  
        ^ Anderson, Jane (2011) Architectural Design, Basics Architecture 03, Lausanne, AVA academia, p. 40. 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-2-940411-26-9.  
        ^ Holm, Ivar (2006). Ideas and Beliefs in Architecture and Industrial design: How attitudes, orientations and underlying assumptions shape the built environment. Oslo School of Architecture and Design. 
          ISBN&nbsp;82-547-0174-1.  
        ^ 
          "Co-creation and the new landscape of design" (PDF).  
        ^ 
          Cross, Nigel (1 June 1993). "Science and design methodology: A review". Research in Engineering Design. 5 (2): 63–69. doi:10.1007/BF02032575. ISSN&nbsp;1435-6066. S2CID&nbsp;110223861. Retrieved 16 April 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Face shields, masks with valves ineffective against COVID-19 spread: study". phys.org. Retrieved 8 October 2020.  
        ^ 
          Verma, Siddhartha; Dhanak, Manhar; Frankenfield, John (1 September 2020). "Visualizing droplet dispersal for face shields and masks with exhalation valves". Physics of Fluids. 32 (9): 091701. arXiv:2008.00125. Bibcode:2020PhFl...32i1701V. doi:10.1063/5.0022968. ISSN&nbsp;1070-6631. PMC&nbsp;7497716. PMID&nbsp;32952381.  
        ^ 
          "Face masks slow spread of COVID-19; types of masks, length of use matter". phys.org. Retrieved 9 December 2020.  
        ^ 
          Kumar, Sanjay; Lee, Heow Pueh (李孝培) (1 November 2020). "The perspective of fluid flow behavior of respiratory droplets and aerosols through the facemasks in context of SARS-CoV-2". Physics of Fluids. 32 (11): 111301. arXiv:2010.06385. Bibcode:2020PhFl...32k1301K. doi:10.1063/5.0029767. ISSN&nbsp;1070-6631. PMC&nbsp;7713871. PMID&nbsp;33281434.  
        ^ Getlein, Mark (2008) Living With Art, 8th ed. New York, p. 121.  
        ^ American Psychological Association (APA): design Archived 2007-01-08 at the Wayback Machine. The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition. Retrieved January 10, 2007  
        ^ American Psychological Association (APA): engineering Archived 2007-01-02 at the Wayback Machine. The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition. Retrieved January 10, 2007  
        ^ 
          Faste, R. (2001). "The Human Challenge in Engineering Design" (PDF). International Journal of Engineering Education. 17 (4–5): 327–331.  
        ^ 
          Larby, Bryan Williams, Louise Attwood, Pauline Treuherz, Ian Fawcett, Dan Hughes, Dave. (2017). AQA GCSE (9-1) Design and Technology. Hodder Education Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-5104-0207-2. OCLC&nbsp;1007922727.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
       
       
      Bibliography 
       
       
         
          
         Look up design in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Design
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Design.
         
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Design 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library
           
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Designer
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Disciplines
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Communicationdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Advertising 
                     Book design 
                     Brand design 
                     Exhibit design 
                     Film title design 
                     Graphic design 
                      
                       Motion 
                       Postage stamp design 
                       Print design
                       
                     Illustration 
                     Information design 
                     Instructional design 
                     News design 
                     Photography 
                     Retail design 
                     Signage&nbsp;/ Traffic sign design 
                     Typography&nbsp;/ Type design 
                     Video design 
                     Visual merchandising
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Environmentaldesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Architecture 
                     Architectural lighting design 
                     Building design 
                      
                       Passive solar
                       
                     Ecological design 
                     Environmental impact design 
                     Garden design 
                      
                       Computer-aided
                       
                     Healthy community design 
                     Hotel design 
                     Interior architecture 
                     Interior design 
                      
                       EID
                       
                     Keyline design 
                     Landscape architecture 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Landscape design 
                     Spatial design 
                     Urban design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Industrialdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Automotive design 
                     Automotive suspension design 
                     CMF design 
                     Corrugated box design 
                     Electric guitar design 
                     Furniture design 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Motorcycle design 
                     Packaging and labeling 
                     Photographic lens design 
                     Product design 
                     Production design 
                     Sensory design 
                     Service design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Interactiondesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Experience design 
                      
                       EED
                       
                     Game design 
                      
                       Level design 
                       Video game design
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Icon design 
                     Immersive design 
                     Information design 
                     Sonic interaction design 
                     User experience design 
                     User interface design 
                     Web design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherapplied arts
                  
                    
                    
                     Public art design 
                     Ceramic&nbsp;/ glass design 
                     Fashion design 
                      
                       Costume design 
                       Jewellery design
                       
                     Floral design 
                     Game art design 
                     Property design 
                     Scenic design 
                     Sound design 
                     Stage/set lighting design 
                     Textile design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherdesign&amp; engineering
                  
                    
                    
                     Algorithm design 
                     Behavioural design 
                     Boiler design 
                     Database design 
                     Drug design 
                     Electrical system design 
                     Experimental design 
                     Filter design 
                     Geometric design 
                     Work design 
                     Integrated circuit design 
                      
                       Circuit design 
                       Physical design 
                       Power network design
                       
                     Mechanism design 
                     Nuclear weapon design 
                     Nucleic acid design 
                     Organization design 
                     Process design 
                     Processor design 
                     Protein design 
                     Research design 
                     Social design 
                     Software design 
                     Spacecraft design 
                     Strategic design 
                     Systems design
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Approaches
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Activity-centered 
                 Adaptive web 
                 Affective 
                 Brainstorming 
                 By committee 
                 By contract 
                 C-K theory 
                 Closure 
                 Co-design 
                 Concept-oriented 
                 Configuration 
                 Contextual 
                 Continuous 
                 Cradle-to-cradle 
                 Creative problem-solving 
                 Creativity techniques 
                 Critical 
                  
                   Design fiction
                   
                 Defensive 
                 Design–bid–build 
                 Design–build 
                  
                   architect-led
                   
                 Diffuse 
                 Domain-driven 
                 Ecological design 
                 Energy neutral 
                 Engineering design process 
                  
                   Probabilistic design
                   
                 Error-tolerant 
                 Fault-tolerant 
                 Framework-oriented 
                 For assembly 
                 For behaviour change 
                 For manufacturability 
                 For Six Sigma 
                 For testing 
                 For X 
                 Functional 
                 Generative 
                 Geodesign 
                 HCD 
                 High-level 
                 Inclusive 
                 Integrated 
                 Integrated topside 
                 Intelligence-based 
                 Iterative 
                 KISS principle 
                 Low-level 
                 Metadesign 
                 Mind mapping 
                 Modular 
                 New Wave 
                 Object-oriented 
                 Open 
                 Parametric 
                 Participatory 
                 Platform-based 
                 Policy-based 
                 Process-centered 
                 Public interest 
                 Rational 
                 Regenerative 
                 Reliability engineering 
                 Research-based 
                 Responsibility-driven 
                 RWD 
                 Safe-life 
                 Sustainable 
                 Systemic 
                  
                   SOD
                   
                 Tableless web 
                 Theory of constraints 
                 Top-down and bottom-up 
                 Transformation 
                 Transgenerational 
                 TRIZ 
                 Universal 
                  
                   Design for All
                   
                 Usage-centered 
                 Use-centered 
                 User-centered 
                  
                   Empathic
                   
                 User innovation 
                 Value-driven 
                 Value sensitive 
                  
                   Privacy by
                  
                 
                
                 Design choice 
                 computing 
                 controls 
                 culture 
                 flow 
                 leadership 
                 management 
                 marker 
                 methods 
                 pattern 
                 research 
                 science 
                 sprint 
                 strategy 
                 theory 
                 thinking
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  Intellectual property
                  Organizations
                  Awards
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  
                    
                    
                     AAD 
                     Architectural model 
                     Blueprint 
                     Comprehensive layout 
                     CAD 
                      
                       CAID 
                       Virtual home design software
                       
                     CAutoD 
                     Design quality indicator 
                     Electronic design automation 
                     Flowchart 
                     Mockup 
                     Design specification 
                     Prototype 
                     Sketch 
                     Storyboard 
                     Technical drawing 
                     HTML editor 
                     Website wireframe
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Intellectualproperty
                  
                    
                    
                     Community design 
                     Design around 
                     Design infringement 
                     Design patent 
                     Fashion design copyright 
                     Geschmacksmuster 
                     Industrial design rights 
                      
                       European Union
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Organizations
                  
                    
                    
                     American Institute of Graphic Arts 
                     Chartered Society of Designers 
                     Design and Industries Association 
                     Design Council 
                     International Forum Design 
                     The Design Society 
                     Design Research Society
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Awards
                  
                    
                    
                     European Design Award 
                     German Design Award 
                     Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
                     Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
                     Graphex 
                     IF Product Design Award 
                     James Dyson Award 
                     Prince Philip Designers Prize
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related topics
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Aesthetics 
                 Agile 
                 Concept art 
                 Conceptual design 
                 Creative industries 
                 Cultural icon 
                 .design 
                 Enterprise architecture 
                 Form factor 
                 Futures studies 
                 Indie design 
                 Innovation management 
                 Intelligent design 
                 Lean startup 
                 New product development 
                 OODA loop 
                 Philosophy of design 
                 Process simulation 
                 Slow design 
                 STEAM fields 
                 Unintelligent design 
                 Visualization 
                 Wicked problem
                 
                
                 Design brief 
                 change 
                 classic 
                 competition 
                  
                   architectural 
                   student
                   
                 director 
                 education 
                 elements and principles 
                 engineer 
                 firm 
                 history 
                 knowledge 
                 language 
                 life 
                 load 
                 museum 
                 paradigm 
                 rationale 
                 review 
                 specification 
                 studies 
                 studio 
                 technology
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Commons  
              Wikibooks  
              Wikinews  
              Wikiquote  
              Wikisource  
              Wiktionary 
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portal:
       
        
         engineering
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Historical Dictionary of Switzerland
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Design&amp;oldid=1066206524"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Design
       Architectural design
       Product development
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with short description
       Articles with long short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from February 2018
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with HDS identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Кыргызча
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 17 January 2022, at 08:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
