
 
  
   
  Full-text search - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Full-text search 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Techniques for searching a single computer-stored document or a collection in a full-text database
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Full-text search"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (August 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      In text retrieval, full-text search, sometimes referred to as free-text-search refers to techniques for searching a single computer-stored document or a collection in a full-text database. Full-text search is distinguished from searches based on metadata or on parts of the original texts represented in databases (such as titles, abstracts, selected sections, or bibliographical references). 
      In a full-text search, a search engine examines all of the words in every stored document as it tries to match search criteria (for example, text specified by a user). Full-text-searching techniques became common in online bibliographic databases in the 1990s. Many websites and application programs (such as word processing software) provide full-text-search capabilities. Some web search engines, such as AltaVista, employ full-text-search techniques, while others index only a portion of the web pages examined by their indexing systems.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Indexing 
        2 The precision vs. recall tradeoff 
        3 False-positive problem 
        4 Performance improvements 
          
          4.1 Improved querying tools 
          4.2 Improved search algorithms 
           
        5 Software 
          
          5.1 Free and open source software 
          5.2 Proprietary software 
           
        6 References 
        7 See also 
        
       
      Indexing 
      When dealing with a small number of documents, it is possible for the full-text-search engine to directly scan the contents of the documents with each query, a strategy called "serial scanning". This is what some tools, such as grep, do when searching. 
      However, when the number of documents to search is potentially large, or the quantity of search queries to perform is substantial, the problem of full-text search is often divided into two tasks: indexing and searching. The indexing stage will scan the text of all the documents and build a list of search terms (often called an index, but more correctly named a concordance). In the search stage, when performing a specific query, only the index is referenced, rather than the text of the original documents. 
      The indexer will make an entry in the index for each term or word found in a document, and possibly note its relative position within the document. Usually the indexer will ignore stop words (such as "the" and "and") that are both common and insufficiently meaningful to be useful in searching. Some indexers also employ language-specific stemming on the words being indexed. For example, the words "drives", "drove", and "driven" will be recorded in the index under the single concept word "drive".  
      The precision vs. recall tradeoff 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Diagram of a low-precision, low-recall search
        
       
       
      Recall measures the quantity of relevant results returned by a search, while precision is the measure of the quality of the results returned. Recall is the ratio of relevant results returned to all relevant results. Precision is the number of relevant results returned to the total number of results returned. 
      The diagram at right represents a low-precision, low-recall search. In the diagram the red and green dots represent the total population of potential search results for a given search. Red dots represent irrelevant results, and green dots represent relevant results. Relevancy is indicated by the proximity of search results to the center of the inner circle. Of all possible results shown, those that were actually returned by the search are shown on a light-blue background. In the example only 1 relevant result of 3 possible relevant results was returned, so the recall is a very low ratio of 1/3, or 33%. The precision for the example is a very low 1/4, or 25%, since only 1 of the 4 results returned was relevant. 
      Due to the ambiguities of natural language, full-text-search systems typically includes options like stop words to increase precision and stemming to increase recall. Controlled-vocabulary searching also helps alleviate low-precision issues by tagging documents in such a way that ambiguities are eliminated. The trade-off between precision and recall is simple: an increase in precision can lower overall recall, while an increase in recall lowers precision.  
      
      
       See also: Precision and recall
       
      False-positive problem 
      Full-text searching is likely to retrieve many documents that are not relevant to the intended search question. Such documents are called false positives (see Type I error). The retrieval of irrelevant documents is often caused by the inherent ambiguity of natural language. In the sample diagram at right, false positives are represented by the irrelevant results (red dots) that were returned by the search (on a light-blue background). 
      Clustering techniques based on Bayesian algorithms can help reduce false positives. For a search term of "bank", clustering can be used to categorize the document/data universe into "financial institution", "place to sit", "place to store" etc. Depending on the occurrences of words relevant to the categories, search terms or a search result can be placed in one or more of the categories. This technique is being extensively deployed in the e-discovery domain.  
      Performance improvements 
      The deficiencies of free text searching have been addressed in two ways: By providing users with tools that enable them to express their search questions more precisely, and by developing new search algorithms that improve retrieval precision.  
      Improved querying tools 
      
       Keywords. Document creators (or trained indexers) are asked to supply a list of words that describe the subject of the text, including synonyms of words that describe this subject. Keywords improve recall, particularly if the keyword list includes a search word that is not in the document text. 
       Field-restricted search. Some search engines enable users to limit free text searches to a particular field within a stored data record, such as "Title" or "Author." 
       Boolean queries. Searches that use Boolean operators (for example, "encyclopedia" AND "online" NOT "Encarta") can dramatically increase the precision of a free text search. The 
        AND operator says, in effect, "Do not retrieve any document unless it contains both of these terms." The 
        NOT operator says, in effect, "Do not retrieve any document that contains this word." If the retrieval list retrieves too few documents, the 
        OR operator can be used to increase recall; consider, for example, 
        "encyclopedia" AND "online" OR "Internet" NOT "Encarta". This search will retrieve documents about online encyclopedias that use the term "Internet" instead of "online." This increase in precision is very commonly counter-productive since it usually comes with a dramatic loss of recall. 
       Phrase search. A phrase search matches only those documents that contain a specified phrase, such as 
        "Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia." 
       Concept search. A search that is based on multi-word concepts, for example Compound term processing. This type of search is becoming popular in many e-discovery solutions. 
       Concordance search. A concordance search produces an alphabetical list of all principal words that occur in a text with their immediate context. 
       Proximity search. A phrase search matches only those documents that contain two or more words that are separated by a specified number of words; a search for 
        "Wikipedia" WITHIN2 "free" would retrieve only those documents in which the words 
        "Wikipedia" and "free" occur within two words of each other. 
       Regular expression. A regular expression employs a complex but powerful querying syntax that can be used to specify retrieval conditions with precision. 
       Fuzzy search will search for document that match the given terms and some variation around them (using for instance edit distance to threshold the multiple variation) 
       Wildcard search. A search that substitutes one or more characters in a search query for a wildcard character such as an asterisk. For example, using the asterisk in a search query 
        "s*n" will find "sin", "son", "sun", etc. in a text.
       
      Improved search algorithms 
      The PageRank algorithm developed by Google gives more prominence to documents to which other Web pages have linked. See Search engine for additional examples.  
      Software 
      The following is a partial list of available software products whose predominant purpose is to perform full-text indexing and searching. Some of these are accompanied with detailed descriptions of their theory of operation or internal algorithms, which can provide additional insight into how full-text search may be accomplished.  
      
       
       Free and open source software 
       
        Apache Lucene 
        Apache Solr 
        ArangoSearch 
        BaseX 
        Elasticsearch 
        KinoSearch 
        Lemur/Indri 
        mnoGoSearch 
        OpenSearch 
        PostgreSQL 
        Searchdaimon 
        Sphinx 
        Swish-e 
        Terrier IR Platform 
        Xapian
        
      
      
       
       Proprietary software 
       
        Algolia 
        Autonomy Corporation 
        Azure Search 
        Bar Ilan Responsa Project 
        Basis database 
        Brainware 
        BRS/Search 
        Concept Searching Limited 
        Dieselpoint 
        dtSearch 
        Endeca 
        Exalead 
        Fast Search &amp; Transfer 
        Inktomi 
        Lucid Imagination 
        MarkLogic 
        SAP HANA 
        Swiftype 
        Thunderstone Software LLC. 
        Vivísimo
        
      
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ In practice, it may be difficult to determine how a given search engine works. The search algorithms actually employed by web-search services are seldom fully disclosed out of fear that web entrepreneurs will use search engine optimization techniques to improve their prominence in retrieval lists.  
         ^ "Capabilities of Full Text Search System". Archived from the original on December 23, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Coles, Michael (2008). Pro Full-Text Search in SQL Server 2008 (Version 1&nbsp;ed.). Apress Publishing Company. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4302-1594-3.  
         ^ 
           B., Yuwono; Lee, D. L. (1996). Search and ranking algorithms for locating resources on the World Wide Web. 12th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE'96). p.&nbsp;164.  
         ^ Studies have repeatedly shown that most users do not understand the negative impacts of boolean queries.  
         ^ US 6285999, Page, Lawrence, "Method for node ranking in a linked database", published 1998-01-09, issued 2001-09-04.&nbsp; "A method assigns importance ranks to nodes in a linked database, such as any database of documents containing citations, the world wide web or any other hypermedia database. The rank assigned to a document is calculated from the ranks of documents citing it. In addition, the rank of a document is..."  
         ^ 
           "SAP Adds HANA-Based Software Packages to IoT Portfolio | MarTech Advisor". www.martechadvisor.com.  
        
       
       
      See also 
      
       Pattern matching and string matching 
       Compound term processing 
       Enterprise search 
       Information extraction 
       Information retrieval 
       Faceted search 
       List of enterprise search vendors 
       WebCrawler, first FTS engine 
       Search engine indexing - how search engines generate indices to support full-text searching
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Full-text_search&amp;oldid=1071178457"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Text editor features
       Information retrieval genres
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from August 2012
       All articles needing additional references
       All pages needing factual verification
       Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from October 2008
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2012
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Français
       Italiano
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 11 February 2022, at 07:42&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
