
 
  
   
  Informatics - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Informatics 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Concept in computer science
       
      
      
       This article is about the discipline. For other uses, see Informatics (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Library science or Information technology.
       
      Informatics is the study of computational systems, especially those for data storage and retrieval. According to ACM Europe and Informatics Europe, informatics is synonymous with computer science and computing as a profession, in which the central notion is transformation of information. In other countries, the term "informatics" is used with a different meaning in the context of library science.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Different meanings 
        2 Etymology 
        3 Informatics as library science 
        4 Informatics as information processing science 
        5 Controversial fields 
        6 Informatics as computer science 
          
          6.1 Related topics 
          6.2 Journals and conferences 
           
        7 Community 
          
          7.1 Related organisations 
          7.2 Academic schools and departments 
           
        8 See also 
        9 References 
        10 Further reading 
        
       
      Different meanings 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Informatics Forum, completed in 2008. It houses researchers of the University of Edinburgh's School of Informatics.
        
       
       
      In some countries, depending on local interpretations, the term "informatics" is used synonymously to mean information systems, information science, information theory, information engineering, information technology, information processing, or other theoretical or practical fields. In Germany, the term informatics almost exactly corresponds to modern computer science. Accordingly, universities in continental Europe usually translate "informatics" as computer science, or sometimes information and computer science, although technical universities may translate it as computer science &amp; engineering. 
      In the United States, however, the term informatics is mostly used in context of data science, library science or its applications in healthcare (biomedical informatics), where it first appeared in the US. 
      The University of Washington uses this term to refer to social computing. In some countries, this term is associated with natural computation and neural computation. 
      The Government of Canada uses the term to refer to operational units offering network and computer services to the various departments.  
      Etymology 
      
      
       See also: Computer science §&nbsp;Etymology, and History of computer science
       
      In 1956, the German informatician Karl Steinbuch and engineer Helmut Gröttrup coined the word Informatik when they developed the Informatik-Anlage for the Quelle mail-order management, one of the earliest commercial applications of data processing. In April 1957, Steinbuch published a paper called Informatik: Automatische Informationsverarbeitung ("Informatics: Automatic Information Processing"). The morphology—informat-ion + -ics—uses "the accepted form for names of sciences, as conics, mathematics, linguistics, optics, or matters of practice, as economics, politics, tactics", and so, linguistically, the meaning extends easily to encompass both the science of information and the practice of information processing. The German word Informatik is usually translated to English as computer science by universities or computer science &amp; engineering by technical universities (German equivalents for institutes of technology). Depending on the context, informatics is also translated into computing, scientific computing or information and computer technology. The French term informatique was coined in 1962 by Philippe Dreyfus. In the same month was also proposed independently by Walter F. Bauer (1924–2015) and associates who co-founded software company Informatics Inc. The term for the new discipline quickly spread throughout Europe, but it did not catch on in the United States. Over the years, many different definitions of informatics have been developed, most of them claim that the essence of informatics is one of these concepts: information processing, algorithms, computation, information, algorithmic processes, computational processes or computational systems.  
      
      
       See also: Computational informatics
       
      The earliest uses of the term informatics in the United States was during the 1950s with the beginning of computer use in healthcare. Early practitioners interested in the field soon learned that there were no formal education programs, and none emerged until the late 1960s. Unfortunately, they introduced the term informatics only in the context of archival science, which is only a small part of informatics. Professional development, therefore, played a significant role in the development of health informatics. According to Imhoff et al., 2001, healthcare informatics is not only the application of computer technology to problems in healthcare, but covers all aspects of generation, handling, communication, storage, retrieval, management, analysis, discovery, and synthesis of data information and knowledge in the entire scope of healthcare. Furthermore, they stated that the primary goal of health informatics can be distinguished as follows: To provide solutions for problems related to data, information, and knowledge processing. To study general principles of processing data information and knowledge in medicine and healthcare. The term health informatics quickly spread throughout the United States in various forms such as nursing informatics, public health informatics or medical informatics. Analogous terms were later introduced for use of computers in various fields, such as business informatics, forest informatics, legal informatics etc. Unfortunately, these fields still mainly use term informatics in context of library science.  
      Informatics as library science 
      
      
       See also: Library science
       
      In the fields of geoinformatics or irrigation informatics, the term -informatics usually mean information science, in context related to library science. This was the first meaning of informatics introduced in Russia in 1966 by A.I. Mikhailov, R.S. Gilyarevskii, and A.I. Chernyi, which referred to a scientific discipline that studies the structure and properties of scientific information. In this context, the term was also used by the International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility. Some scientists use this term, however, to refer to the science of information processing, not data management. 
      In the English-speaking world, the term informatics was first widely used in the compound medical informatics, taken to include "the cognitive, information processing, and communication tasks of medical practice, education, and research, including information science and the technology to support these tasks". Many such compounds are now in use; they can be viewed as different areas of "applied informatics".  
      Informatics as information processing science 
      
      
       See also: Cognitive Science §&nbsp;Namings
       
      In the early 1990s, K.K. Kolin proposed an interpretation of informatics as a fundamental science that studies information processes in nature, society, and technical systems. 
      A broad interpretation of informatics, as "the study of the structure, algorithms, behaviour, and interactions of natural and artificial computational systems," was introduced by the University of Edinburgh in 1994. This has led to the merger of the institutes of computer science, artificial intelligence and cognitive science into a single School of Informatics in 2002. 
      More than a dozen nearby universities joined Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance. Some non-European universities have also adopted this definition (e.g. Kyoto University School of Informatics). 
      In 2003, Yingxu Wang popularized term cognitive informatics, described as follows:  
      
      
       Supplementary to matter and energy, information is the third essence for modeling the world. Cognitive informatics focuses on internal information processing mechanisms and the natural intelligence of the brain.
       
      Informatics as a fundamental science of information in natural and artificial systems was proposed again in Russia in 2006. 
      In 2007, the influential book Decoding the Universe was published. 
      Former president of Association for Computing Machinery, Peter Denning wrote in 2007:  
      
      
       The old definition of computer science - the study of phenomena surrounding computers - is now obsolete. Computing is the study of natural and artificial information processes.
       
      The 2008 Research Assessment Exercise, of the UK Funding Councils, includes a new, Computer Science and Informatics, unit of assessment (UoA), whose scope is described as follows:  
      
       
        The UoA includes the study of methods for acquiring, storing, processing, communicating and reasoning about information, and the role of interactivity in natural and artificial systems, through the implementation, organisation and use of computer hardware, software and other resources. The subjects are characterised by the rigorous application of analysis, experimentation and design.
       
       
      In 2008, the construction of the Informatics Forum was completed. In 2018, the MIT Schwarzman College of Computing was established. Its construction is planned to be completed in 2021.  
      Controversial fields 
      
       evolutionary informatics - a new field that comes from the concept of an intelligent design. According to Evolutionary Informatics Lab, evolutionary informatics studies how evolving systems incorporate, transform, and export information. In 2017, the influential book "Introduction To Evolutionary Informatics" was published.
       
      Informatics as computer science 
       
        
        
       
         
         United States  
         Germany  
         Russia  
         France  
         Italy  
         English transcription 
         
         
         Computer Science, Computing  
         Informatik  
         информатика (latinized: informatika)  
         Informatique  
         Informatica  
         Informatics 
         
         
         Theoretical Computer Science  
         Theoretische Informatik  
         компьютерная наука  
         Informatique théorique  
         Informatica teorica  
         Theoretical Informatics 
         
         
         Computer Engineering  
         Technische Informatik  
         компьютерная инженерия  
         Ingénierie or génie informatique  
         Ingegneria informatica  
         Technical Informatics, 
         
         
         Neurocomputing, Neural computation  
         Neuroinformatik  
         нейроинформатика  
         Neuro-informatique  
         Neuroinformatica  
         Neuroinformatics 
         
       
       
      Related topics 
      Computer scientists study computational processes and systems. Computing Research Repository (CoRR) classification distinguishes the following main topics in computer science (alphabetic order):  
      
       
       
        artificial intelligence 
        computation and language 
        computational complexity 
        computational engineering, finance, and science 
        computational geometry 
        computational game theory 
        computer vision and pattern recognition 
        computers and society 
        cryptography and security 
        data structures and algorithms 
        databases and digital libraries 
        distributed, parallel and cluster computing 
        emerging technologies 
        formal languages and automata theory 
        general literature 
        graphics 
        hardware architecture 
        human-computer Interaction 
        information retrieval 
        information theory 
        logic in computer science 
        machine learning 
        mathematical software 
        multiagent systems 
        multimedia 
        networking and internet architecture 
        neural computing and evolutionary computing 
        numerical analysis 
        operating systems 
        other computer science 
        performance 
        programming languages 
        robotics 
        social and information networks 
        software engineering 
        sound 
        symbolic computation 
        systems and control
        
       
      Journals and conferences 
      
      
       See also: List of computer science conferences and List of important publications in theoretical computer science
       
      
       
       
        Information and Computation 
        Acta Informatica 
        Information Processing Letters 
        Neural Information Processing Systems 
        Journal of Automata, Languages and Combinatorics 
        International Journal of Cognitive Informatics and Natural Intelligence 
        Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition) 
        Symposium on Theory of Computing 
        European Conference on Computer Vision 
        Brain Informatics 
        International Conference on Computer Vision 
        International Conference on Machine Learning 
        Algorithmica 
        Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science) 
        European Symposium on Algorithms 
        Fundamenta Informaticae 
        Symposium on Discrete Algorithms 
        Journal of Logic and Computation 
        Bioinformatics 
        Neural Computing and Applications 
        Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems 
        International Symposium on Fundamentals of Computation Theory 
        International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming 
        Journal of Scientific Computing 
        Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science 
        Annual Symposium on Computational Geometry 
        Simulation &amp; Gaming 
        Journal of Machine Learning Research 
        Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 
        ACM Transactions on Graphics 
        IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 
        IEEE Transactions on Computers 
        IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture 
        ACM Symposium on Computer and Communications Security 
        Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures 
        Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science
        
       
      Community 
      Related organisations 
      
       
       
        Informatics Europe 
        Association for Computing Machinery 
        IEEE Computer Society 
        Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance 
        Computing Research Association 
        Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence 
        American Society for Information Science and Technology 
        International Federation for Information Processing 
        Association for Logic, Language and Information 
        Gesellschaft für Informatik 
        Association for Women in Computing 
        Computer Science Teachers Association 
        Computability in Europe 
        European Association for Theoretical Computer Science 
        Raspberry Pi Foundation
        
       
      Academic schools and departments 
      
       
       
        MIT Schwarzman College of Computing at Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
        Department for Informatics at University of Hamburg 
        School of Computer Science &amp; Engineering at University of Washington 
        Department of Computer Science and Engineering at University of Notre Dame 
        School of Informatics at University of Edinburgh 
        Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford 
        Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Santa Clara University 
        Faculty for Computer Science and Engineering at University of Michigan 
        Department of Computer Science &amp; Engineering at University of Nevada 
        Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 
        Institute of Neuroinformatics at University of Zurich 
        Department of Computer Science at American University of Beirut 
        Department of Computing at Imperial College London 
        Institut für Neuroinformatik at Ruhr-Universität Bochum 
        Stanford University's Computer Science Department 
        Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley 
        Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering at University of Cantenbury 
        Interdisciplinary programs at Texas Woman's University 
        List of Information Schools
        
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Anti-information 
        Information science 
        Information processing system 
        Behavior informatics 
        Computational theory of mind 
        Models of neural computation 
        Cellular automaton 
        Computer simulation 
        Computational circuit 
        Entscheidungsproblem 
        Swarm intelligence 
        Biomimetics 
        Information processing 
        Robotics 
        Algorithmics 
        Neural computation 
        Real-time computing 
        Computer architecture 
        Artificial intelligence
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c d "What is Informatics? University of Edinburgh" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "INFORMATICS | Bedeutung im Cambridge Englisch Wörterbuch". dictionary.cambridge.org (in German).  
         ^ 
           "Are We All In The Same Boat? ACM &amp; Informatics Europe" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "What is Informatics? - Definition from Techopedia". Techopedia.com.  
         ^ a b 
           Wellisch, Hans (1972-07-01). "From Information Science to Informatics: a terminological investigation". Journal of Librarianship. 4 (3): 157–187. doi:10.1177/096100067200400302. ISSN&nbsp;0022-2232. S2CID&nbsp;62708018.  
         ^ 
           "Computer Science and Computer Engineering | Hochschule Osnabrück". www.hs-osnabrueck.de. Retrieved 2020-08-31.  
         ^ 
           "Informatik – Technische Informatik (B.Sc.) | Hochschule Osnabrück". www.hs-osnabrueck.de. Retrieved 2020-08-31.  
         ^ 
           "What is Informatics? USF Health". www.usfhealthonline.com. 16 February 2017. Retrieved 2020-08-20.  
         ^ 
           "Informatics Major". ischool.uw.edu. Retrieved 2020-08-20.  
         ^ 
           "Informatics Major". ischool.uw.edu.  
         ^ 
           "Forschungszentrum Jülich - Cognitive Neuroinformatics". www.fz-juelich.de. Retrieved 2020-08-22.  
         ^ https://www.btb.termiumplus.gc.ca/tpv2alpha/alpha-eng.html?lang=eng&amp;i=1&amp;srchtxt=informatics&amp;index=enb&amp;codom2nd_wet=1#resultrecs  
         ^ 
           Biener, Klaus (December 1997). "Karl Steinbuch – Informatiker der ersten Stunde Hommage zu seinem 80. Geburtstag" (PDF) (in German). Retrieved 2021-10-08. Steinbuch coined this expression together with Helmut Gröttrup, an employee from Peenemünde.  
         ^ 
           "Karl Steinbuch Eulogy – Bernard Widrow, Reiner Hartenstein, Robert Hecht-Nielsen" (PDF). uni-kl.de. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-07-19. Retrieved 2014-04-28.  
         ^ Oxford English Dictionary 1989  
         ^ 
           CTKlein. "Best word for "computer science"". German Language Stack Exchange. Stack Exchange Inc. Retrieved 6 April 2020.  
         ^ Dreyfus, Phillipe. L’informatique. Gestion, Paris, June 1962, pp. 240–41  
         ^ 
           Wegner, Peter. "Research paradigms in Computer Science, Brown University" (PDF).  
         ^ a b 
           Nelson, Ramona; Staggers, Nancy (8 December 2016). Health Informatics: An Interprofessional Approach. Elsevier Health Sciences. p.&nbsp;7. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-323-40225-5.  
         ^ Imhoff, M., Webb. A,.&amp;Goldschmidt, A., (2001). Health Informatics. Intensive Care Med, 27: 179-186. doi:10.1007//s001340000747.  
         ^ Nelson, R. &amp; Staggers, N. Health Informatics: An Interprofessional Approach. St. Louis: Mosby, 2013. Print. (p.4,7)  
         ^ a b 
           Yatsko, Viatcheslav A. (2018). "Informatics, Information Science, and Computer Science". Scientific and Technical Information Processing.  
         ^ 
           Wang, Yingxu (2013). "Basic theories for neuroinformatics and neurocomputing". 2013 IEEE 12th International Conference on Cognitive Informatics and Cognitive Computing: 3–4. doi:10.1109/ICCI-CC.2013.6622217. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4799-0783-0. S2CID&nbsp;12488667.  
         ^ Greenes, R.A. and Shortliffe, E.H. (1990) "Medical Informatics: An emerging discipline with academic and institutional perspectives." Journal of the American Medical Association, 263(8) pp. 1114–20.  
         ^ 
           Brown, Neil. "The old www.cogsci.ed.ac.uk server". www.inf.ed.ac.uk.  
         ^ 
           Wang, Yingxu (2003-08-01). "On Cognitive Informatics". Brain and Mind. 4 (2): 151–167. doi:10.1023/A:1025401527570. ISSN&nbsp;1573-3300. S2CID&nbsp;61495426.  
         ^ 
           "Becoming of informatics as fundamental science and the complex scientific problem". www.mathnet.ru.  
         ^ 
           Denning, Peter J. "Computing Is a Natural Science". Communications of the ACM.  
         ^ 
           "UoA 23 Computer Science and Informatics, Panel working methods" (PDF). rae.ac.uk.  
         ^ 
           "The Evolutionary Informatics Lab – The Evolutionary Informatics Lab".  
         ^ 
           Robert J. Marks II (12 June 2017). "Top Ten Questions and Objections to Introduction to Evolutionary Informatics".  
         ^ 
           "arXiv.org e-Print archive". arxiv.org.  
         ^ 
           "Informatics as a Fundamental Discipline for the 21st Century". Informatics Europe. 2019.  
         ^ 
           Denning, Peter J.; Rosenbloom, Paul (2009). The Profession of IT Computing: The Fourth Great Domain of Science. Association of Computing Machinery. OCLC&nbsp;981466101.  
         ^ 
           "International Journal of Cognitive Informatics and Natural Intelligence (IJCINI)".  
         ^ 
           IEEE CS (1983). IEEE computer society conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, CVPR. 1983 conf., Washington, D.C. Proceedings: Computer vision and pattern recognition. New York, N.Y. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8186-0053-1. OCLC&nbsp;472099962.  
         ^ 
           "Brain Informatics". Brain Informatics.  
         ^ 
           "Alvy Ray Smith synapse FOCS Cover". alvyray.com.  
         ^ 
           "Neural Computing and Applications". Springer.  
         ^ 
           "Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems". Springer.  
         ^ 
           "Journal of Scientific Computing". www.scimagojr.com.  
         ^ 
           "Simulation &amp; Gaming". SAGE Journals.  
         ^ 
           "ACM CCS 2020 - November 9-13, 2020". www.sigsac.org.  
         ^ 
           "Home | MIT Schwarzman College of Computing | Massachusetts Institute of Technology". computing.mit.edu.  
         ^ 
           Federrath, Prof Dr Hannes. "Forschung". www.inf.uni-hamburg.de (in German).  
         ^ 
           "Welcome to Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science &amp; Engineering | Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science &amp; Engineering". www.cs.washington.edu.  
         ^ 
           "Department of Computer Science and Engineering". cse.nd.edu.  
         ^ 
           "Research". The University of Edinburgh.  
         ^ 
           "Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford". www.cs.ox.ac.uk.  
         ^ 
           "Department of Computer Science and Engineering - School of Engineering - Santa Clara University". www.scu.edu.  
         ^ 
           "Computer Science and Engineering at Michigan".  
         ^ 
           "Computer Science &amp; Engineering". University of Nevada, Reno.  
         ^ 
           "Computer Science | Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences". www.seas.harvard.edu.  
         ^ 
           "Institute of Neuroinformatics at University of Zurich".  
         ^ 
           "Department of Computer Science". www.aub.edu.lb.  
         ^ 
           "Department of Computing". Imperial College London.  
         ^ 
           "About the Institute | Institut für Neuroinformatik". www.ini.rub.de.  
         ^ 
           "Research @ CS | Stanford Computer Science". cs.stanford.edu.  
         ^ 
           "EECS at UC Berkeley". EECS at UC Berkeley.  
         ^ 
           "Computer Science and Software Engineering | University of Canterbury". The University of Canterbury.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        
        
         
          Informatics Europe (2018). Informatics for All The Strategy (PDF). 
         
          School of Informatics (1994). "What is Informatics?" (PDF). 
         
          Informatics Europe (2018). Informatics Education in Europe: Institutions, Degrees, Students, Positions, Salaries in 2013-2018 (PDF). 
         
          Informatics Europe &amp; ACM Europe Working Group (2013). "Informatics Education: Europe cannot Afford to Miss the Boat" (PDF). 
         
          The Committee on European Computing Education (2018). "Informatics Education in Europe: Are We All In The Same Boat?" (PDF). 
         
          University of Edinburgh (2002). Entry for informatics to appear in International Encyclopedia of Information and Library Science (PDF). 
         
          Informatics Europe (2013). Informatics Doctorates in Europe - Some Facts and Figures (PDF). 
         
          Informatics Europe (2018). Informatics research evaluation (PDF).
         
        
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Informatics&amp;oldid=1066983796"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Artificial intelligence
       Cognitive science
       Computer science education
       Information science
       Computational fields of study
       Schools of informatics
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 German-language sources (de)
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Български
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Latviešu
       Limburgs
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Magyar
       Монгол
       日本語
       Português
       Shqip
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Tiếng Việt
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 03:43&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
