
 
  
   
  Library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     
      
       
       
      
       
        This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 7 February 2022.
        
       
      
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Organized collection of books or other information resources
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Library (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Library of the Palais Bourbon in Paris
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Duke Humfrey's Library, Oxford, England
        
       
       
      A library is a collection of materials, books or media that are easily accessible for use and not just for display purposes. It is responsible for housing updated information in order to meet the user's needs on a daily basis. A library provides physical (hard copies documents) or digital access (soft copies) materials, and may be a physical location or a virtual space, or both. A library's collection can include printed materials and other physical resources in many formats such as DVD, CD and Cassette as well as access to information, music or other content held on bibliographic databases. 
      A library, which may vary widely in size, may be organized for use and maintained by a public body such as a government; an institution such as a school or museum; a corporation; or a private individual. In addition to providing materials, libraries also provide the services of librarians who are trained and experts at finding, selecting, circulating and organizing information and at interpreting information needs, navigating and analyzing very large amounts of information with a variety of resources. 
      Library buildings often provide quiet and conducive areas for studying, as well as common areas for group study and collaboration, and may provide public facilities for access to their electronic resources; for instance: computers and access to the Internet. The library's clientele and therefore the services offered vary depending on its type: users of a public library have different needs from those of a special library, for example. Libraries may also be community hubs, where programs are delivered and people engage in lifelong learning. Modern libraries extend their services beyond the physical walls of a building by providing material accessible by electronic means, including from home via the Internet. Hence managing information in an information world has become very easy simply because information can be provided or being accessed virtually by people who are in remote areas and other places away from the library. 
      The services the library offers are variously described as library services, information services, or the combination "library and information services", although different institutions and sources define such terminology differently.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Etymology 
           
        2 Changing roles and content 
        3 Librarians/information specialists 
        4 Types 
          
          4.1 Academic libraries 
          4.2 Children's libraries 
          4.3 National libraries 
          4.4 Public lending libraries 
          4.5 Reference libraries 
          4.6 Research libraries 
          4.7 Digital libraries 
          4.8 Special libraries 
           
        5 Organization 
        6 Buildings 
        7 Usage 
          
          7.1 Shift to digital libraries 
          7.2 The Internet 
           
        8 Associations 
        9 International protection 
        10 See also 
          
          10.1 Lists of libraries 
           
        11 References 
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of libraries
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Sistine Hall of the Vatican Library.
        
       
       
      The history of libraries began with the first efforts to organize collections of documents. The first libraries consisted of archives of the earliest form of writing—the clay tablets in cuneiform script discovered in Sumer, some dating back to 2600 BC. Private or personal libraries made up of written books appeared in classical Greece in the 5th century BC. In the 6th century, at the very close of the Classical period, the great libraries of the Mediterranean world remained those of Constantinople and Alexandria. 
      The Fatimids (r. 909-1171) also possessed many great libraries within their domains. The historian Ibn Abi Tayyi’ describes their palace library, which probably contained the largest collection of literature on earth at the time, as a “wonder of the world”. Throughout history, along with bloody massacres, the destruction of libraries has been critical for conquerors who wish to destroy every trace of the vanquished community’s recorded memory. A prominent example of this can be found in the Mongol massacre of the Nizaris at Alamut in 1256 and the torching of their library, “the fame of which,” boasts the conqueror Juwayni, “had spread throughout the world”. 
      The libraries of Timbuktu were established in the fourteenth century and attracted scholars from all over the world.  
      Etymology 
      The term library is based on the Latin liber for 'book' or 'document', contained in Latin libraria 'collection of books' and librarium 'container for books'. Other modern languages use derivations from Ancient Greek βιβλιοθήκη (bibliothēkē), originally meaning 'book container', via Latin bibliotheca (cf. French bibliothèque or German Bibliothek).  
      Changing roles and content 
      Libraries may provide physical or digital access to material, and may be a physical location or a virtual space, or both. A library's collection can include books, periodicals, newspapers, manuscripts, films, maps, prints, documents, microform, CDs, cassettes, videotapes, DVDs, Blu-ray Discs, e-books, audiobooks, databases, table games, video games and other formats. Libraries range widely in size, up to millions of items. 
      Libraries often provide quiet areas for studying, and they also often offer common areas to facilitate group study and collaboration. Libraries often provide public facilities for access to their electronic resources and the Internet. Public and institutional collections and services may be intended for use by people who choose not to—or cannot afford to—purchase an extensive collection themselves, who need material no individual can reasonably be expected to have, or who require professional assistance with their research. 
      Services offered by a library are variously described as library services, information services, or the combination "library and information services", although different institutions and sources define such terminology differently. Organizations or departments are often called by one of these names. However, in a world that is not static the roles of the libraries is slowly changing in order to suit the changing world, services provided by Libraries has gone an extra mile in supporting research, reference services. Reference services that include Current Awareness Services (CAS), Selective Dissemination Information (SDI) and Telephone Services. Therefore these services creates a conducive environment where library clients have the privilege to interact with the library staff in order to express their view and Information related needs.  
      Librarians/information specialists 
      
      
       See also: Education for librarianship
       
      Libraries are usually staffed by a combination of professionally-trained librarians, paraprofessional staff sometimes called library technicians, and support staff. Some topics related to the education of librarians and allied staff include accessibility of the collection, acquisition of materials, arrangement and finding tools, the book trade, the influence of the physical properties of the different writing materials, language distribution, role in education, rates of literacy, budgets, staffing, libraries for specially targeted audiences, architectural merit, patterns of usage, the role of libraries in a nation's cultural heritage, and the role of government, church or private sponsorship. Since the 1960s, issues of computerization and digitization have arisen. Librarians are trained to be updated with trending Information in order relevant Information.  
      Types 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Poet Laureate Rita Dove's definition of a library at entrance to the Maine State Library in Augusta, Maine, United States
        
       
       
      Many institutions make a distinction between a circulating or lending library, where materials are expected and intended to be loaned to patrons, institutions, or other libraries, and a reference library where material is not lent out. Travelling libraries, such as the early horseback libraries of eastern Kentucky and bookmobiles, are generally of the lending type. Modern libraries are often a mixture of both, containing a general collection for circulation, and a reference collection which is restricted to the library premises. Also, increasingly, digital collections enable broader access to material that may not circulate in print, and enables libraries to expand their collections even without building a larger facility. Lamba (2019) reinforced this idea by observing that "today’s libraries have become increasingly multi-disciplinary, collaborative and networked" and that applying Web 2.0 tools to libraries would "not only connect the users with their community and enhance communication but will also help the librarians to promote their library’s activities, services, and products to target both their actual and potential users".  
      Academic libraries 
      
      
       Main article: Academic library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The round reading room of Maughan Library, the main university library of King's College London, London, England
        
       
       
      Academic libraries are generally located on college and university campuses and primarily serve the students and faculty of that and other academic institutions. Some academic libraries, especially those at public institutions, are accessible to members of the general public in whole or in part. Therefore Library Services are extended to the general public at a fee, most academic libraries create such services in order to mobilize and also to just enhance literacy levels in their own communities. Libraries are known as institutions that enables the improvement of the reading culture in all parts of the world.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The University Library at Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, Hungary
        
       
       
      Academic libraries are libraries that are hosted in post-secondary educational institutions, such as colleges and universities. Their main functions are to provide support in research, consultancy and resource linkage for students and faculty of the educational institution. Academic libraries&nbsp;house current, reliable relevant information resources spread through all the disciplines which serve to assuage the information requirements of students and faculty. However, in cases where not all books are housed Libraries have come up with E-resources, where they subscribe for a given institution they are serving in order to provide backups and also it is not just possible to have all the types of information. furthermore, most Libraries collaborate with other Libraries in exchange of books. 
      Specific course-related resources are usually provided by the library, such as copies of textbooks and article readings held on 'reserve' (meaning that they are loaned out only on a short-term basis, usually a matter of hours). Some academic libraries provide resources not usually associated with libraries, such as the ability to check out laptop computers, web cameras, or scientific calculators. 
      Academic libraries offer workshops and courses outside of formal, graded coursework, which are meant to provide students with the tools necessary to succeed in their programs. These workshops may include help with citations, effective search techniques, journal databases, and electronic citation software. These workshops provide students with skills that can help them achieve success in their academic careers (and often, in their future occupations), which they may not learn inside the classroom.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Robarts Library at the University of Toronto, Canada
        
       
       
      The academic library provides a quiet study space for students on campus; it may also provide group study space, such as meeting rooms. In North America, Europe, and other parts of the world, academic libraries are becoming increasingly digitally oriented. The library provides a "gateway" for students and researchers to access various resources, both print/physical and digital. Academic institutions are subscribing to electronic journals databases, providing research and scholarly writing software, and usually provide computer workstations or computer labs for students to access journals, library search databases and portals, institutional electronic resources, Internet access, and course- or task-related software (i.e. word processing and spreadsheet software). Some academic libraries take on new roles, for instance, acting as an electronic repository for institutional scholarly research and academic knowledge, such as the collection and curation of digital copies of students' theses and dissertations. Moreover, academic libraries are increasingly acting as publishers on their own on a not-for-profit basis, especially in the form of fully Open Access institutional publishers.  
      Children's libraries 
      
      
       "Children's library" redirects here. For the collection of digitized books, see Internet Archive's Children's Library.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A children's library in Montreal, Quebec, Canada in 1943
        
       
       
      Children's libraries are special collections of books intended for juvenile readers and usually kept in separate rooms of general public libraries. Some children's libraries have entire floors or wings dedicated to them in bigger libraries while smaller ones may have a separate room or area for children. They are an educational agency seeking to acquaint the young with the world's literature and to cultivate a love for reading. Their work supplements that of the public schools. 
      Services commonly provided by public libraries may include storytelling sessions for infants, toddlers, preschool children, or after-school programs, all with an intention of developing early literacy skills and a love of books. One of the most popular programs offered in public libraries are summer reading programs for children, families, and adults. 
      Another popular reading program for children is PAWS TO READ or similar programs where children can read to certified therapy dogs. Since animals are a calming influence and there is no judgment, children learn confidence and a love of reading. Many states have these types of programs: parents need simply ask their librarian to see if it is available at their local library.  
      National libraries 
      
      
       Main article: National library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Interior of the National Library of Finland in Helsinki, Finland
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         National Library of Wales, Aberystwyth
        
       
       
      A national or state library serves as a national repository of information, and has the right of legal deposit, which is a legal requirement that publishers in the country need to deposit a copy of each publication with the library. Unlike a public library, a national library rarely allows citizens to borrow books. Often, their collections include numerous rare, valuable, or significant works. There are wider definitions of a national library, putting less emphasis on the repository character. The first national libraries had their origins in the royal collections of the sovereign or some other supreme body of the state. 
      Many national libraries cooperate within the National Libraries Section of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) to discuss their common tasks, define and promote common standards, and carry out projects helping them to fulfill their duties. The national libraries of Europe participate in The European Library which is a service of the Conference of European National Librarians (CENL).  
      Public lending libraries 
      
      
       Main article: Public library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Raczyński Library, the public library of Poznań, Poland
        
       
       
      A public library provides services to the general public. If the library is part of a countywide library system, citizens with an active library card from around that county can use the library branches associated with the library system. A library can serve only their city, however, if they are not a member of the county public library system. Much of the materials located within a public library are available for borrowing. The library staff decides upon the number of items patrons are allowed to borrow, as well as the details of borrowing time allotted. Typically, libraries issue library cards to community members wishing to borrow books. Often visitors to a city are able to obtain a public library card.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A community library in Ethiopia
        
       
       
      Many public libraries also serve as community organizations that provide free services and events to the public, such as reading groups and toddler story time. For many communities, the library is a source of connection to a vast world, obtainable knowledge and understanding, and entertainment. According to a study by the Pennsylvania Library Association, public library services play a major role in fighting rising illiteracy rates among youths. Public libraries are protected and funded by the public they serve.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bates Hall, the main reading room of the Boston Public Library, Boston, Massachusetts, United States
        
       
       
      As the number of books in libraries have steadily increased since their inception, the need for compact storage and access with adequate lighting has grown. The stack system involves keeping a library's collection of books in a space separate from the reading room. This arrangement arose in the 19th century. Book stacks quickly evolved into a fairly standard form in which the cast iron and steel frameworks supporting the bookshelves also supported the floors, which often were built of translucent blocks to permit the passage of light (but were not transparent, for reasons of modesty). The introduction of electrical lighting had a huge impact on how the library operated. The use of glass floors was largely discontinued, though floors were still often composed of metal grating to allow air to circulate in multi-story stacks. As more space was needed, a method of moving shelves on tracks (compact shelving) was introduced to cut down on otherwise wasted aisle space. 
      Library 2.0, a term coined in 2005, is the library's response to the challenge of Google and an attempt to meet the changing needs of users by using web 2.0 technology. Some of the aspects of Library 2.0 include, commenting, tagging, bookmarking, discussions, use of online social networks by libraries, plug-ins, and widgets. Inspired by web 2.0, it is an attempt to make the library a more user-driven institution. 
      Despite the importance of public libraries, they are routinely having their budgets cut by state legislature. Funding has dwindled so badly that many public libraries have been forced to cut their hours and release employees.  
      Reference libraries 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Main reading room of the New York City Public Library on 5th Avenue c. 1910–1920
        
       
       
      A reference library does not lend books and other items; instead, they can only be read at the library itself. Typically, such libraries are used for research purposes, for example at a university. Some items at reference libraries may be historical and even unique. Many lending libraries contain a "reference section", which holds books, such as dictionaries, which are common reference books, and are therefore not lent out. Such reference sections may be referred to as "reading rooms", which may also include newspapers and periodicals. An example of a reading room is the Hazel H. Ransom Reading Room at the Harry Ransom Center of the University of Texas at Austin, which maintains the papers of literary agent Audrey Wood.  
      Research libraries 
      
      
       Main article: Research library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Quaid-e-Azam Library in Bagh-e-Jinnah, Lahore, Pakistan
        
       
       
      A research library is a collection of materials on one or more subjects. A research library supports scholarly or scientific research and will generally include primary as well as secondary sources; it will maintain permanent collections and attempt to provide access to all necessary materials. A research library is most often an academic or national library, but a large special library may have a research library within its special field, and a very few of the largest public libraries also serve as research libraries. A large university library may be considered a research library; and in North America, such libraries may belong to the Association of Research Libraries. In the United Kingdom, they may be members of Research Libraries UK (RLUK). 
      A research library can be either a reference library, which does not lend its holdings, or a lending library, which does lend all or some of its holdings. Some extremely large or traditional research libraries are entirely reference in this sense, lending none of their materials; most academic research libraries, at least in the US and the UK, now lend books, but not periodicals or other materials. Many research libraries are attached to a parental organization and serve only members of that organization. Examples of research libraries include the British Library, the Bodleian Library at Oxford University and the New York Public Library Main Branch on 42nd Street in Manhattan, State Public Scientific Technological Library of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Science.  
      Digital libraries 
      
      
       Main article: Digital library
       
      Digital libraries are libraries that house digital resources. They are defined as an organization and not a service that provide access to digital works, have a preservation responsibility to provide future access to materials, and provides these items easily and affordably. The definition of a digital library implies that "a digital library uses a variety of software, networking technologies and standards to facilitate access to digital content and data to a designated user community." Access to digital libraries can be influenced by several factors, either individually or together. The most common factors that influence access are: The library's content, the characteristics and information needs of the target users, the library's digital interface, the goals and objectives of the library's organizational structure, and the standards and regulations that govern library use. Access will depend on the users ability to discover and retrieve documents that interest them and that they require, which in turn is a preservation question. Digital objects cannot be preserved passively, they must be curated by digital librarians to ensure the trust and integrity of the digital objects. 
      One of the biggest considerations for digital librarians is the need to provide long-term access to their resources; to do this, there are two issues requiring watchfulness: Media failure and format obsolescence. With media failure, a particular digital item is unusable because of some sort of error or problem. A scratched CD-ROM, for example, will not display its contents correctly, but another, unscratched disk will not have that problem. Format obsolescence is when a digital format has been superseded by newer technology, and so items in the old format are unreadable and unusable. Dealing with media failure is a reactive process, because something is done only when a problem presents itself. In contrast, format obsolescence is preparatory, because changes are anticipated and solutions are sought before there is a problem. 
      Future trends in digital preservation include: Transparent enterprise models for digital preservation, launch of self-preserving objects, increased flexibility in digital preservation architectures, clearly defined metrics for comparing preservation tools, and terminology and standards interoperability in real time.  
      Special libraries 
      
      
       Main article: Special library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bookshelf at the Beinecke Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library. The top floor contains 180,000 volumes. Since 1977, all new acquisitions are frozen at −33&nbsp;°F (−36&nbsp;°C) to prevent the spread of insects and diseases.
        
       
       
      All other libraries fall into the "special library" category. Many private businesses and public organizations, including hospitals, churches, museums, research laboratories, law firms, and many government departments and agencies, maintain their own libraries for the use of their employees in doing specialized research related to their work. Depending on the particular institution, special libraries may or may not be accessible to the general public or elements thereof. In more specialized institutions such as law firms and research laboratories, librarians employed in special libraries are commonly specialists in the institution's field rather than generally trained librarians, and often are not required to have advanced degrees in a specifically library-related field due to the specialized content and clientele of the library. 
      Special libraries can also include women's libraries or LGBTQ libraries, which serve the needs of women and the LGBTQ community. Libraries and the LGBTQ community have an extensive history, and there are currently many libraries, archives, and special collections devoted to preserving and helping the LGBTQ community. Women's libraries, such as the Vancouver Women's Library or the Women's Library @LSE are examples of women's libraries that offer services to women and girls and focus on women's history.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Long Room of the Trinity College Library in Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. It is a legal deposit or "copyright library" and is entitled to receive a copy of all books published in the UK.
        
       
       
      Some special libraries, such as governmental law libraries, hospital libraries, and military base libraries commonly are open to public visitors to the institution in question. Depending on the particular library and the clientele it serves, special libraries may offer services similar to research, reference, public, academic, or children's libraries, often with restrictions such as only lending books to patients at a hospital or restricting the public from parts of a military collection. Given the highly individual nature of special libraries, visitors to a special library are often advised to check what services and restrictions apply at that particular library. 
      Special libraries are distinguished from special collections, which are branches or parts of a library intended for rare books, manuscripts, and other special materials, though some special libraries have special collections of their own, typically related to the library's specialized subject area. 
      For more information on specific types of special libraries, see law libraries, medical libraries, music libraries, or transportation libraries.  
      Organization 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Library shelves in Hong Kong, showing numbers of the classification scheme to help readers locate works in that section
        
       
       
      Most libraries have materials arranged in a specified order according to a library classification system, so that items may be located quickly and collections may be browsed efficiently. Some libraries have additional galleries beyond the public ones, where reference materials are stored. These reference stacks may be open to selected members of the public. Others require patrons to submit a "stack request", which is a request for an assistant to retrieve the material from the closed stacks: see List of closed stack libraries (in progress). 
      Larger libraries are often divided into departments staffed by both paraprofessionals and professional librarians.  
      
       Circulation (or Access Services) – Handles user accounts and the loaning/returning and shelving of materials. 
       Collection Development – Orders materials and maintains materials budgets. 
       Reference – Staffs a reference desk answering questions from users (using structured reference interviews), instructing users, and developing library programming. Reference may be further broken down by user groups or materials; common collections are children's literature, young adult literature, and genealogy materials. 
       Technical Services – Works behind the scenes cataloging and processing new materials and deaccessioning weeded materials. 
       Stacks Maintenance – Re-shelves materials that have been returned to the library after patron use and shelves materials that have been processed by Technical Services. Stacks Maintenance also shelf reads the material in the stacks to ensure that it is in the correct library classification order.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Card used by a user to sign out a book
        
       
       
      Basic tasks in library management include the planning of acquisitions (which materials the library should acquire, by purchase or otherwise), library classification of acquired materials, preservation of materials (especially rare and fragile archival materials such as manuscripts), the deaccessioning of materials, patron borrowing of materials, and developing and administering library computer systems. More long-term issues include the planning of the construction of new libraries or extensions to existing ones, and the development and implementation of outreach services and reading-enhancement services (such as adult literacy and children's programming). Library materials like books, magazines, periodicals, CDs, etc. are managed by Dewey Decimal Classification Theory and modified Dewey Decimal Classification Theory is more practical reliable system for library materials management. 
      The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has published several standards regarding the management of libraries through its Technical Committee 46 (TC 46), which is focused on "libraries, documentation and information centers, publishing, archives, records management, museum documentation, indexing and abstracting services, and information science". The following is a partial list of some of them:  
      
       ISO 2789:2006 Information and documentation—International library statistics 
       ISO 11620:1998 Information and documentation—Library performance indicators 
       ISO 11799:2003 Information and documentation—Document storage requirements for archive and library materials 
       ISO 14416:2003 Information and documentation—Requirements for binding of books, periodicals, serials, and other paper documents for archive and library use—Methods and materials 
       ISO/TR 20983:2003 Information and documentation—Performance indicators for electronic library services
       
      Buildings 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Butler Library at Columbia University, est. 1759
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         National Library of India, Kolkata, est. 1836
        
       
       
      Librarians have sometimes complained that some of the library buildings which have been used to accommodate libraries have been inadequate for the demands made upon them. In general, this condition may have resulted from one or more of the following causes:  
      
       an effort to erect a monumental building; most of those who commission library buildings are not librarians and their priorities may be different 
       to conform it to a type of architecture unsuited to library purposes 
       the appointment, often by competition, of an architect unschooled in the requirements of a library 
       failure to consult with the librarian or with library experts
       
      Much advancement has undoubtedly been made toward cooperation between architect and librarian, and many good designers have made library buildings their specialty; nevertheless it seems that the ideal type of library is not yet realized—the type so adapted to its purpose that it would be immediately recognized as such, as is the case with school buildings. This does not mean that library constructions should conform rigidly to a fixed standard of appearance and arrangement, but it does mean that the exterior should express as nearly as possible the purpose and functions of the interior.  
      Usage 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Until the advent of digital catalogues, card catalogues were the traditional method of organizing the list of resources and their location within a large library.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Reading room at the State and University Library, the national library of Denmark
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Dynix was an early, but long-lasting and popular, digital catalogue.
        
       
       
      Some patrons may not know how to fully use the library's resources. This can be due to individuals' unease in approaching a staff member. Ways in which a library's content is displayed or accessed may have the most impact on use. An antiquated or clumsy search system, or staff unwilling or untrained to engage their patrons, will limit a library's usefulness. In the public libraries of the United States, beginning in the 19th century, these problems drove the emergence of the library instruction movement, which advocated library user education. One of the early leaders was John Cotton Dana. The basic form of library instruction is sometimes known as information literacy. 
      Libraries should inform their users of what materials are available in their collections and how to access that information. Before the computer age, this was accomplished by the card catalogue—a cabinet (or multiple cabinets) containing many drawers filled with index cards that identified books and other materials. In a large library, the card catalogue often filled a large room. 
      The emergence of the Internet, however, has led to the adoption of electronic catalogue databases (often referred to as "webcats" or as online public access catalogues, OPACs), which allow users to search the library's holdings from any location with Internet access. This style of catalogue maintenance is compatible with new types of libraries, such as digital libraries and distributed libraries, as well as older libraries that have been retrofitted. Large libraries may be scattered within multiple buildings across a town, each having multiple floors, with multiple rooms housing their resources across a series of shelves called bays. Once a user has located a resource within the catalogue, they must then use navigational guidance to retrieve the resource physically, a process that may be assisted through signage, maps, GPS systems, or RFID tagging. 
      Finland has the highest number of registered book borrowers per capita in the world. Over half of Finland's population are registered borrowers. In the US, public library users have borrowed on average roughly 15 books per user per year from 1856 to 1978. From 1978 to 2004, book circulation per user declined approximately 50%. The growth of audiovisuals circulation, estimated at 25% of total circulation in 2004, accounts for about half of this decline.  
      Shift to digital libraries 
      
      
       See also: Digital library
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Interior of the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, Alexandria, Egypt, showing both stacks and computer terminals
        
       
       
      In the 21st century, there has been increasing use of the Internet to gather and retrieve data. The shift to digital libraries has greatly impacted the way people use physical libraries. Between 2002 and 2004, the average American academic library saw the overall number of transactions decline approximately 2.2%. Libraries are trying to keep up with the digital world and the new generation of students that are used to having information just one click away. For example, the University of California Library System saw a 54% decline in circulation between 1991 and 2001 of 8,377,000 books to 3,832,000. 
      These facts might be a consequence of the increased availability of e-resources. In 1999–2000, 105 ARL university libraries spent almost $100&nbsp;million on electronic resources, which is an increase of nearly $23&nbsp;million from the previous year. A 2003 report by the Open E-book Forum found that close to a million e-books had been sold in 2002, generating nearly $8&nbsp;million in revenue. Another example of the shift to digital libraries can be seen in Cushing Academy's decision to dispense with its library of printed books—more than 20,000 volumes in all—and switch over entirely to digital media resources.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Stacks of the José Vasconcelos Library in Mexico City, Mexico
        
       
       
      A 2001 discussion paper exploring changing use of libraries reported decreased library usage by undergraduate students, who had become more used to retrieving information from the Internet than a traditional library. Finding information by simply searching the Internet is seen as easier and faster than reading an entire book. In a survey conducted by NetLibrary, 93% of undergraduate students said that finding information online made more sense to them than going to the library. Three-quarters said they did not have enough time to go to the library. While the retrieving information from the Internet may be efficient and time-saving than visiting a traditional library, research showed that undergraduates are most likely searching only .03% of the entire web. 
      In the mid-2000s, Swedish company Distec invented a library book vending machine known as the GoLibrary, that offers library books to people where there is no branch, limited hours, or high traffic locations such as El Cerrito del Norte BART station in California.  
      The Internet 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         British Museum Reading Room
        
       
       
      A library may make use of the Internet in a number of ways, from creating their own library website to making the contents of its catalogues searchable online. Some specialised search engines such as Google Scholar offer a way to facilitate searching for academic resources such as journal articles and research papers. The Online Computer Library Center allows anyone to search the world's largest repository of library records through its WorldCat online database. Websites such as LibraryThing and Amazon provide abstracts, reviews, and recommendations of books. Libraries provide computers and Internet access to allow people to search for information online. Online information access is particularly attractive to younger library users. 
      Digitization of books, particularly those that are out-of-print, in projects such as Google Books provides resources for library and other online users. Due to their holdings of valuable material, some libraries are important partners for search engines such as Google in realizing the potential of such projects and have received reciprocal benefits in cases where they have negotiated effectively. As the prominence of and reliance on the Internet has grown, library services have moved the emphasis from mainly providing print resources to providing more computers and more Internet access. Libraries face a number of challenges in adapting to new ways of information seeking that may stress convenience over quality, reducing the priority of information literacy skills. The potential decline in library usage, particularly reference services, puts the necessity for these services in doubt. 
      Library scholars have acknowledged that libraries need to address the ways that they market their services if they are to compete with the Internet and mitigate the risk of losing users. This includes promoting the information literacy skills training considered vital across the library profession. Many US based research librarians rely on the ACRL Framework for Information Literacy in order to guide students and faculty in research. However, marketing of services has to be adequately supported financially in order to be successful. This can be problematic for library services that are publicly funded and find it difficult to justify diverting tight funds to apparently peripheral areas such as branding and marketing. 
      The privacy aspect of library usage in the Internet age is a matter of growing concern and advocacy; privacy workshops are run by the Library Freedom Project which teach librarians about digital tools (such as the Tor network) to thwart mass surveillance.  
      Associations 
      
      
       See also: List of library associations
       
      The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) is the leading international association of library organisations. It is the global voice of the library and information profession, and its annual conference provides a venue for librarians to learn from one another. 
      Library associations in Asia include the Indian Library Association (ILA), Indian Association of Special Libraries and Information Centers (IASLIC), Bengal Library Association (BLA), Kolkata, Pakistan Library Association, the Pakistan Librarians Welfare Organization, the Bangladesh Association of Librarians, Information Scientists and Documentalists, the Library Association of Bangladesh, and the Sri Lanka Library Association (founded 1960). 
      National associations of the English-speaking world include the American Library Association, the Australian Library and Information Association, the Canadian Library Association, the Library and Information Association of New Zealand Aotearoa, and the Research Libraries UK (a consortium of 30 university and other research libraries in the United Kingdom). Library bodies such as CILIP (formerly the Library Association, founded 1877) may advocate the role that libraries and librarians can play in a modern Internet environment, and in the teaching of information literacy skills. The Nigerian Library Association is the recognized group for librarians working in Nigeria. It was established in 1962 in Ibadan. 
      Public library advocacy is support given to a public library for its financial and philosophical goals or needs. Most often this takes the form of monetary or material donations or campaigning to the institutions which oversee the library, sometimes by advocacy groups such as Friends of Libraries and community members. Originally, library advocacy was centered on the library itself, but current trends show libraries positioning themselves to demonstrate they provide "economic value to the community" in means that are not directly related to the checking out of books and other media.  
      International protection 
      Libraries are considered part of the cultural heritage and are one of the primary objectives in many state and domestic conflicts and are at risk of destruction and looting. Financing is often carried out by robbing valuable library items. National and international coordination regarding military and civil structures for the protection of libraries is operated by Blue Shield International and UNESCO. From an international perspective, despite the partial dissolution of state structures and very unclear security situations as a result of the wars and unrest, robust undertakings to protect libraries are being carried out. The topic is also the creation of "no-strike lists", in which the coordinates of important cultural monuments such as libraries have been preserved.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Schools portal 
        Society portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Chinese Library Classification (CLC) 
        Controlled vocabulary 
        Dewey Decimal Classification 
        Digital reference 
        Document management system 
        Federal Depository Library Program 
        Green library 
        Information technology 
        Integrated library system 
        Interlibrary loan 
        International Standard Book Number 
        Libraries and the LGBTQ community 
        Libraries in fiction 
        Library anxiety 
        Library assessment 
        Library of Congress Classification 
        Library of Congress Subject Headings 
        Library portal 
        Library Services and Construction Act 
        Little Free Library 
        National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped 
        Private library 
        Public library 
        Public libraries in North America 
        Roving reference 
        Trends in library usage
       
       
      Lists of libraries 
      
      
       Main articles: List of libraries, List of national and state libraries, and List of libraries in the ancient world
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "The history of libraries". Britannica. May 2020. Retrieved 29 January 2021.  
         ^ 
           Virani, Shafique N. (1 April 2007). The Ismailis in the Middle Ages. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195311730.001.0001. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-531173-0.  
         ^ 
           Singleton, Brent D. (2004). "African Bibliophiles: Books and Libraries in Medieval Timbuktu". Libraries &amp; Culture. 39 (1): 1–12. JSTOR&nbsp;25549150. Retrieved 19 January 2022.  
         ^ 
           Pfeifer, Wolfgang (1989). Etymologisches Wörterbuch des Deutschen. A-G. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag. p.&nbsp;166. ISBN&nbsp;3-05-000641-2.  
         ^ 
           Lalrohlui, R (22 January 2021). "Application of Information And Communication Techology in Special Libraries in Aizawl: A Study" (2013). Mizoram University – via Digital Repository of Mizoram University. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Howard, Jennifer (Fall 2019). "The Complicated Role of the Public LIbrary". Humanities: the Magazine of the National Endowment of the Humanities.  
         ^ 
           "Library &amp; Information Service". Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Retrieved 6 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Types of Library and Information Service". Management Decision. 24 (2): 8–24. 1 February 1986. doi:10.1108/eb001400.  
         ^ 
           "A quick guide to services provided by Library &amp; Information Services" (PDF). James Cook University.  
         ^ 
           "Reference and Information Service". Rutgers University Libraries. 27 April 2000. Retrieved 6 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           Marshall, Joanne Gard; Sollenberger, Julia; et&nbsp;al. (2013). "The value of library and information services in patient care: results of a multisite study". Journal of the Medical Library Association. 101 (1): 38–46. doi:10.3163/1536-5050.101.1.007. PMC&nbsp;3543128. PMID&nbsp;23418404.  
         ^ 
           Government of Tasmania (29 January 2021). "COVID Safe Workplace Guidelines: Library and other information services industry" (PDF).  
         ^ 
           "Information and research services principles". National and State Libraries Australia. 29 March 2019. Retrieved 6 March 2021.  
         ^ 
           Norman, Anne E. (2012). "Librarians' Leadership for Lifelong Learning". Public Library Quarterly. 31 (2): 91–140. doi:10.1080/01616846.2012.684577. S2CID&nbsp;205491612 – via FRANCIS Archive.  
         ^ 
           "The Amazing Story of Kentucky's Horseback Librarians (10 Photos)". Archive Project. Retrieved 19 May 2017.  
         ^ 
           Lamba, Manika (2019). "Marketing of academic health libraries 2.0: a case study". Library Management. 40 (3/4): 155–177. doi:10.1108/LM-03-2018-0013. S2CID&nbsp;70170037.  
         ^ 
           "St. George Library Workshops". utoronto.ca.  
         ^ Dowler, Lawrence (1997). Gateways to knowledge: the role of academic libraries in teaching, learning, and research. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-262-04159-6  
         ^ 
           "The Role of Academic Libraries in Universal Access to Print and Electronic Resources in the Developing Countries, Chinwe V. Anunobi, Ifeyinwa B. Okoye". Unllib.unl.edu. Retrieved 9 September 2012.  
         ^ 
           "TSpace". utoronto.ca.  
         ^ 
           "Library Publishing, or How to Make Use of Your Opportunities". LePublikateur. 21 May 2018. Retrieved 15 June 2018.  
         ^ 
           Lars Aarsgaard, John Dunne, Kathy East, Leikny Haga Indergaard, Susanne Kruger, Ulga Maeots, Rita Schmitt, and Ivanka Stricevic. (2003). "The background text to the Guidelines for Children's library services" (PDF). IFLA. Retrieved 10 March 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link) CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)  
         ^ This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain:&nbsp;
           Modell, David A. (1920). "Children's Libraries"&nbsp;. In Rines, George Edwin (ed.). Encyclopedia Americana.  
         ^ 
           L.O., Aina (2004). Library and Information Science Text for Africa. Ibadan, Nigeria: Third World Information Services Ltd. p.&nbsp;31. ISBN&nbsp;9783283618.  
         ^ Udomisor, I., Udomisor, E., &amp; Smith, E. (2013). Management of Communication Crisis in a Library and Its Influence on Productivity. In Information and Knowledge Management (Vol. 3, No. 8, pp. 13–21)  
         ^ 
           "Paws to read". Retrieved 1 April 2013.  
         ^ Line, Maurice B.; Line, J. (1979). "Concluding notes". National libraries, Aslib, pp. 317–18  
         ^ Lor, P.J.; Sonnekus, E.A.S. (1997). "Guidelines for Legislation for National Library Services" Archived 13 August 2006 at the Wayback Machine, IFLA. Retrieved on 10 January 2009.  
         ^ 
           "About CENL". The Conference of European National Librarians (CENL).}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ Celano, D., &amp; Neumann, S.B. (2001). The role of public libraries in children's literacy development: An evaluation report. Pennsylvania, PA: Pennsylvania Library Association.  
         ^ 
           Cohen, L.B. (2007). "A Manifesto for our time". American Libraries. 38: 47–49.  
         ^ 
           Jaeger, Paul T.; Bertot, John Carol; Gorham, Ursula (January 2013). "Wake Up the Nation: Public Libraries, Policy Making, and Political Discourse". The Library Quarterly: Information, Community, Policy. 83 (1): 61–72. doi:10.1086/668582. JSTOR&nbsp;10.1086/668582. S2CID&nbsp;145670348.  
         ^ 
           Ehrenhaft, George; Howard Armstrong, William; Lampe, M. Willard (August 2004). Barron's pocket guide to study tips. Barron's Educational Series. p.&nbsp;263. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7641-2693-2.  
         ^ 
           Champneys, Amian L. (2007). Public Libraries. Jeremy Mills Publishing. p.&nbsp;93. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-905217-84-7.  
         ^ "Audrey Wood: An Inventory of Her Collection at the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center." www.hrc.utexas.edu. Retrieved 22 April 2015.  
         ^ 
           Young, Heartsill (1983). ALA Glossary of Library and Information Science. Chicago: American Library Association. p.&nbsp;188. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8389-0371-1. OCLC&nbsp;8907224.  
         ^ 
           "Association of Research Libraries (ARL)&nbsp;:: Member Libraries". arl.org. 2012. Archived from the original on 19 April 2012. Retrieved 2 March 2012.  
         ^ 
           "RLUK: Research Libraries UK". RLUK. Retrieved 9 January 2013.  
         ^ 
           "SPSTL SB RAS". www.spsl.nsc.ru. Retrieved 26 January 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Our Story".  
         ^ 
           Chowdhury, G.G.; Foo, C. (2012). Digital Libraries and Information Access: research perspectives. Chicago: Neal-Schuman. pp.&nbsp;2–3. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55570-914-3. OCLC&nbsp;869282690.  
         ^ Chowdhury &amp; Foo (2012), pp.&nbsp;3–4.  
         ^ Chowdhury &amp; Foo (2012), p.&nbsp;49.  
         ^ 
           Borgman, Christine L. (2007). Scholarship in the digital age: information, infrastructure, and the Internet. Cambridge: MIT Press. p.&nbsp;88. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-02619-2. OCLC&nbsp;181028448.  
         ^ a b Chowdhury &amp; Foo (2012), p.&nbsp;211.  
         ^ 
           "Library classification". britannica.com. Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 17 October 2017.  
         ^ Morris, V. &amp; Bullard, J. (2009). Circulation Services. In Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences (3rd ed.).  
         ^ 
           Stueart, Robert; Moran, Barbara B.; Morner, Claudia J. (2013). Library and information center management (Eighth&nbsp;ed.). Santa Barbara: Libraries Unlimited. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59884-988-2. OCLC&nbsp;780481202.  
         ^ 
           Bhattacharjee, Pijush Kanti (2010). "Modified Dewey Decimal Classification Theory for Library Materials Management". International Journal of Innovation, Management and Technology. 1 (3): 292–94.  
         ^ 
           "ISO – Technical committees – TC 46 – Information and documentation". ISO.org. Retrieved 7 March 2010.  
         ^ 
           "ISO – ISO Standards – TC 46 – Information and documentation". ISO.org. Retrieved 7 March 2010.  
         ^ 
           Bennett, Scott (April 2009). "Libraries and Learning: A History of Paradigm Change". Portal: Libraries and the Academy. 9 – via ProQuest.  
         ^ This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain:&nbsp;
           Wiley, Edwin (1920). "Library Architecture and Construction"&nbsp;. In Rines, George Edwin (ed.). Encyclopedia Americana.  
         ^ 
           Weiss, S.C. (2003). "The origin of library instruction in the United States, 1820–1900". Research Strategies. 19 (3/4): 233–43. doi:10.1016/j.resstr.2004.11.001.  
         ^ 
           Mattson, K. (2000). "The librarian as secular minister to democracy: The life and ideas of John Cotton Dana". Libraries &amp; Culture. 35 (4): 514–34.  
         ^ 
           Robinson, T.E. (2006). "Information literacy: Adapting to the media age". Alki. 22 (1): 10–12.  
         ^ Harris &amp; Ewing (Photographer). (ca. 1940).  . Library of Congress. https://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/90712191/  
         ^ 
           Sloan, B; White, M.S.B. (1992). "Online public access catalogs". Academic and Library Computing. 9 (2): 9–13. doi:10.1108/EUM0000000003734.  
         ^ 
           Pantzar, Katja (September 2010). "The humble Number One: Finland". This is Finland. Retrieved 17 March 2012.  
         ^ Statistics on Book Circulation Per User of U.S. Public Libraries Since 1856 from galbithink.org  
         ^ Applegate, Rachel. "Whose Decline? Which Academic Libraries are "Deserted" in Terms of Reference Transactions?" Reference &amp; User Services Quarterly; 2nd ser. 48 (2008): 176–89. Print.  
         ^ University of California Library Statistics 1990–91, University-wide Library Planning, University of California Office of the President (July 1991): 12; University of California Library Statistics July 2001, 7, Ucop.edu Archived 2 July 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 17 July 2005; University of California Library Statistics July 2004, 7, Ucop.edu Archived 2 July 2010 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 17 July 2005.  
         ^ "ARL Libraries Spend Nearly $100 Million on Electronic Resources," ARL Bimonthly Report 219, Association of Research Libraries (December 2001) Archived 21 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Striphas, Ted. The Late Age of Print: Everyday Book Culture From Consumerism to Control. New York City: Columbia University Press, 2009. Print.  
         ^ Striphas, Ted. "Books: "An Outdated Technology?" Weblog post. The Late Age of Print. 4 September 2009. Web. 19 November 2009. Thelateageofprint.org  
         ^ Troll, Denise A. "How and Why are Libraries Changing?" Digital Library Federation. Library Information Technology – Carnegie Mellon, 9 January 2001. Web. 29 November 2009. Diglib.org  
         ^ 
           "Library-a-Go-Go comes to El Cerrito del Norte BART Station | bart.gov". www.bart.gov. Retrieved 25 October 2021.  
         ^ a b Grossman, W. M. (2009). "Why you can't find a library book in your search engine". The Guardian. Accessed: 23 March 2010  
         ^ 
           Mostafa, J (2005). "Seeking Better Web Searches". Scientific American. 292 (2): 51–57. Bibcode:2005SciAm.292b..66M. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0205-66. PMID&nbsp;15715393.  
         ^ Corradini, E. (2006). "Teenagers Analyse their Public Library". New Library World; Vol. 107 (1230/1231), pp. 481–98. Emerald Group Publishing Limited. Retrieved 25 February 2010  
         ^ Department for Children, Schools and Families. (2005). Youth Matters. Archived 8 April 2010 at the UK Government Web Archive Accessed: 7 March 2010  
         ^ 
           Nippold, M.A.; Duthie, J.K. &amp; Larsen, J. (2005). "Literacy as a Leisure Activity: Free-time preferences of Older Children and Young Adolescents". Language, Speech, and Hearing Services in Schools. 36 (2): 93–102. doi:10.1044/0161-1461(2005/009). PMID&nbsp;15981705. In: 
           Snowball, C. (2008). "Enticing Teenagers into the Library". Library Review. Emerald Group Publishing. 57 (1): 25–35. doi:10.1108/00242530810845035. hdl:20.500.11937/6057.  
         ^ 
           Museums, Libraries and Archives, Department of Culture, Media and Sport &amp; Laser Foundation (June 2006). A Research Study of 14–35-year olds for the Future Development of Public Libraries (PDF) (Report). Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 March 2012. Retrieved 7 March 2010.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ Darnton, R. (2009). "Google &amp; the Future of Books". New York Review of Books; 55 (2). Accessed: 23 March 2010  
         ^ Garrod, P. (2004). "Public Libraries: the changing face of the public library". Ariadne; Issue 39. Accessed 26 March 2010  
         ^ Abram, S. &amp; Luther, J. (1 May 2004). "Born with the Chip: the next generation will profoundly impact both library service and the culture within the profession". Library Journal. Accessed: 26 March 2010  
         ^ a b 
           Bell, S. (15 May 2005). "Backtalk: don't surrender library values". Library Journal. Archived from the original on 12 June 2012. Retrieved 20 April 2010.  
         ^ Novotny, E. (2002). "Reference service statistics and assessment. SPEC kit". Pennsylvania State University. Accessed: 16 March 2010  
         ^ Vrana, R., and Barbaric, A. (2007). "Improving visibility of public libraries in the local community: a study of five public libraries in Zagreb, Croatia". New Library World; 108 (9/10), pp. 435–44.  
         ^ a b 
           CILIP (2010). "An introduction to information literacy". CILIP. London. Archived from the original on 16 June 2011. Retrieved 13 April 2010.  
         ^ 
           Kenney, B. (15 December 2004). "Googlizers vs. Resistors: library leaders debate our relationship with search engines". Library Journal. Archived from the original on 8 June 2005. Retrieved 26 March 2010.  
         ^ 
           DMUELLER (9 February 2015). "Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education". Association of College &amp; Research Libraries (ACRL). Retrieved 28 October 2021.  
         ^ Hood, D. &amp; Henderson, K. (2005). "Branding in the United Kingdom Public Library Service". New Library World; 106 (1208/1209), pp. 16–28  
         ^ 
           "SCREW YOU, FEDS! Dozen or more US libraries line up to run Tor exit nodes". Theregister.co.uk. Retrieved 21 September 2015.  
         ^ https://libraryfreedomproject.org/libraries-tor-freedom-and-resistance/ Library Freedom Project at Kilton Library  
         ^  https://journals.ala.org/rusq/article/view/5704/7092 The Tor Browser and Intellectual Freedom in the Digital Age  
         ^ 
           "International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA)". ifla.org. 2012. Retrieved 3 March 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Welcome to Indian Library Association". Ilaindia.net. Retrieved 9 September 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Welcome to Indian Association of Special Libraries and Information Centers". Iaslic1955.org.in. 3 September 1955.  
         ^ 
           "Bengal Library Association". Blacal.org. Retrieved 9 September 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Pakistan Library Association". Pla.org.pk. Retrieved 21 June 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Pakistan Librarians Welfare Organization". Librarianswelfare.org. Retrieved 21 June 2013.  
         ^ 
           Rowlands, Ian; Nicholas, David; Williams, Peter; Huntington, Paul; Fieldhouse, Maggie; Gunter, Barrie; Withey, Richard; Jamali, Hamid R.; Dobrowolski, Tom; Tenopir, Carol (2008). "The Google generation: the information behaviour of the researcher of the future". ASLIB Proceedings. 60 (4): 290–310. doi:10.1108/00012530810887953.  
         ^ 
           Miller, Ellen G. (2009). "Hard Times = A New Brand of Advocacy". Georgia Library Quarterly. 46 (1).  
         ^ Isabelle-Constance von Opalinski: Schüsse auf die Zivilisation. In: Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung., (German), 20 August 2014.  
         ^ Peter Stone: Monuments Men: protecting cultural heritage in war zones. In: Apollo – The International Art Magazine. 2 Februar 2015.  
         ^ Corine Wegener, Marjan Otter: Cultural Property at War: Protecting Heritage during Armed Conflict. In: The Getty Conservation Institute, Newsletter. 23.1, Spring 2008.  
         ^ Eden Stiffman: Cultural Preservation in Disasters, War Zones. Presents Big Challenges. In: The Chronicle of Philanthropy. 11 May 2015.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Barnard, T.D.F. (ed.) (1967). Library Buildings: design and fulfilment; papers read at the Week-end Conference of the London and Home Counties Branch of the Library Association, held at Hastings, 21–23 April 1967. London: Library Association (London and Home Counties Branch) 
       Terry Belanger. Lunacy &amp; the Arrangement of Books, New Castle, Del.: Oak Knoll Books, 1983; 3rd ptg 2003, 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1-58456-099-9 
       Bieri, Susanne &amp; Fuchs, Walther (2001). Bibliotheken bauen: Tradition und Vision = Building for Books: traditions and visions. Basel: Birkhäuser 
        ISBN&nbsp;3-7643-6429-7 
       Ellsworth, Ralph E. (1973). Academic Library Buildings: a guide to architectural issues and solutions. 530 pp. Boulder: Associated University Press 
       Fraley, Ruth A. &amp; Anderson, Carol Lee (1985). Library Space Planning: how to assess, allocate, and reorganize collections, resources, and physical facilities. New York: Neal-Schuman Publishers 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-918212-44-8 
       
        Herrera-Viedma, E.; Lopez-Gijon, J. (2013). "Libraries' Social Role in the Information Age". Science. 339 (6126): 1382. Bibcode:2013Sci...339.1382H. doi:10.1126/science.339.6126.1382-a. PMID&nbsp;23520092. 
       Irwin, Raymond (1947). The National Library Service . London: Grafton &amp; Co. x, 96 p. 
       Lewanski, Richard C. (1967). Lilbrary Directories  Library Science Dictionaries, in Bibliography and Reference Series, no. 4. 1967 ed. Santa Barbara, Calif.: Clio Press. N.B.: Publisher also named as the "American Bibliographical Center". 
       Robert K. Logan with Marshall McLuhan. The Future of the Library: From Electric Media to Digital Media. New York: Peter Lang Publishing. 
       Mason, Ellsworth (1980). Mason on Library Buildings. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-8108-1291-6 
       Monypenny, Phillip, and Guy Garrison (1966). The Library Functions of the States : Commentary on the Survey of Library Functions of the States,  Survey and Standard Committee  American Association of State Libraries. Chicago: American Library Association. xiii, 178 p. 
       
        Murray, Suart A.P. (2009). The Library an Illustrated History. New York: Skyhorse Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8389-0991-1. 
       Orr, J.M. (1975). Designing Library Buildings for Activity; 2nd ed. London: Andre Deutsch 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-233-96622-6 
       Thompson, Godfrey (1973). Planning and Design of Library Buildings. London: Architectural Press 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-85139-526-0
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Libraries
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Library.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Look up library in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       Libraries at Curlie 
       LIBweb—Directory of library servers in 146 countries via WWW 
       Centre for the History of the Book, hss.ed.ac.uk 
        Wikisource. The Free Library 
        Texts on Wikisource: 
        
         
          Dana, John Cotton (1920). "Libraries, Special, Commercial and Industrial". In Rines, George Edwin (ed.). Encyclopedia Americana. 
         
          Rines, George Edwin, ed. (1920). "Library Data". Encyclopedia Americana. 
         
          Rines, George Edwin, ed. (1920). "Library Publications". Encyclopedia Americana. 
         
          Walter, Frank K. (1920). "Rural Libraries". Encyclopedia Americana. 
         
          Tedder, Henry Richard; Brown, James Duff (1911). "Libraries". Encyclopædia Britannica (11th&nbsp;ed.). 
         
          Paton, James Morton; Charles Alexander Nelson; Melvil Dewey; James Hulme Canfield (1905). "Libraries". New International Encyclopedia. 
         A Library Primer by John Cotton Dana (1899) 
         
          Champlin, John D. (1879). "Library". The American Cyclopædia.
         
       Libraries: Frequently Asked Questions, ibiblio.org 
       A Library Primer, by John Cotton Dana, 1903, setting out the basics of organizing and running a library. (from Project Gutenberg)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Books
           
         
         
          Production
          
            
            
             Binding 
             Covers 
              
               dust jackets
               
             Design 
             Editing 
             Illustration 
              
               Illuminated manuscripts
               
             Printing 
              
               edition 
               history 
               incunabula 
               instant book 
               limited edition
               
             Publishing 
              
               advance copy 
               hardcover 
               paperback
               
             Size 
             Typesetting 
             Volume (bibliography) 
             Collection (publishing) 
             Book series
             
           
         
         
          Consumption
          
            
            
             Awards 
             Bestsellers 
             Bibliography 
             Bibliomania (tsundoku) 
             Bibliophilia 
             Bibliotherapy 
             Bookmarks 
             Bookselling 
              
               blurbs 
               book towns 
               used
               
             Censorship 
             Clubs 
             Collecting 
             Digitizing 
             Bookworm (insect) 
             Furniture 
              
               bookcases 
               bookends
               
             Library 
             Print culture 
             Reading 
              
               literacy
               
             Reviews
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             Brazil 
             France 
             Germany 
             Italy 
             Japan 
             Netherlands 
             Pakistan 
             Spain 
             United Kingdom 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Genres 
              
               fictional 
               miniature 
               pop-up 
               textbook
               
             Grimoire 
             Formats 
              
               audiobooks 
               Ebooks
               
             Coffee table book
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Book packaging 
             Book swapping 
             History of books 
             Outline 
             Intellectual property 
             ISBN 
             List of best-selling books 
             Conservation and restoration 
             Preservation 
             Dog ears 
             World Book Day 
             World Book Capital
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Outline 
              Category 
              Portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Israel
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology
             
           
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library&amp;oldid=1070395775"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Libraries
       Library science
       Book promotion
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 maint: url-status
       CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference
       Wikipedia articles incorporating text from Encyclopedia Americana
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Webarchive template other archives
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2012
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia pending changes protected pages
       Use dmy dates from April 2021
       Articles containing Latin-language text
       Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
       Articles containing French-language text
       Articles containing German-language text
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2021
       All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2012
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from September 2012
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2021
       Commons link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Curlie links
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia with a Wikisource reference
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       العربية
       Aragonés
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Արեւմտահայերէն
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Авар
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       བོད་ཡིག
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       贛語
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Коми
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Ladino
       ລາວ
       Latgaļu
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Livvinkarjala
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Pangasinan
       Papiamentu
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русский
       Setswana
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       ᏣᎳᎩ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vèneto
       Vepsän kel’
       Tiếng Việt
       Walon
       文言
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 February 2022, at 07:41&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
