
 
  
   
  Concept - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Concept 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Mental representation or an abstract object
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Concept (disambiguation).
       
      Concepts are defined as abstract ideas. They are understood to be the fundamental building blocks of the concept behind principles, thoughts and beliefs. They play an important role in all aspects of cognition. As such, concepts are studied by several disciplines, such as linguistics, psychology, and philosophy, and these disciplines are interested in the logical and psychological structure of concepts, and how they are put together to form thoughts and sentences. The study of concepts has served as an important flagship of an emerging interdisciplinary approach called cognitive science. 
      In contemporary philosophy, there are at least three prevailing ways to understand what a concept is:  
      
       Concepts as mental representations, where concepts are entities that exist in the mind (mental objects) 
       Concepts as abilities, where concepts are abilities peculiar to cognitive agents (mental states) 
       Concepts as Fregean senses, where concepts are abstract objects, as opposed to mental objects and mental states
       
      Concepts can be organized into a hierarchy, higher levels of which are termed "superordinate" and lower levels termed "subordinate". Additionally, there is the "basic" or "middle" level at which people will most readily categorize a concept. For example, a basic-level concept would be "chair", with its superordinate, "furniture", and its subordinate, "easy chair".  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         
        
       
       
      Concepts may be exact, or inexact. When the mind makes a generalization such as the concept of tree, it extracts similarities from numerous examples; the simplification enables higher-level thinking. A concept is instantiated (reified) by all of its actual or potential instances, whether these are things in the real world or other ideas. 
      Concepts are studied as components of human cognition in the cognitive science disciplines of linguistics, psychology, and philosophy, where an ongoing debate asks whether all cognition must occur through concepts. Concepts are used as formal tools or models in mathematics, computer science, databases and artificial intelligence where they are sometimes called classes, schema or categories. In informal use the word concept often just means any idea.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Ontology of concepts 
          
          1.1 Concepts as mental representations 
            
            1.1.1 The psychological view of concepts 
            1.1.2 The physicalist view of concepts 
             
          1.2 Concepts as abstract objects 
            
            1.2.1 A priori concepts 
            1.2.2 Embodied content 
            1.2.3 Realist universal concepts 
            1.2.4 Sense and reference 
            1.2.5 Concepts in calculus 
             
           
        2 Notable theories on the structure of concepts 
          
          2.1 Classical theory 
            
            2.1.1 Arguments against the classical theory 
             
          2.2 Prototype theory 
          2.3 Theory-theory 
           
        3 Ideasthesia 
        4 Etymology 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Ontology of concepts 
      A central question in the study of concepts is the question of what they are. Philosophers construe this question as one about the ontology of concepts—what kind of things they are. The ontology of concepts determines the answer to other questions, such as how to integrate concepts into a wider theory of the mind, what functions are allowed or disallowed by a concept's ontology, etc. There are two main views of the ontology of concepts: (1) Concepts are abstract objects, and (2) concepts are mental representations.  
      Concepts as mental representations 
      
      
       See also: Direct and indirect realism
       
      The psychological view of concepts 
      
      
       Main article: Mental representation
       
      Within the framework of the representational theory of mind, the structural position of concepts can be understood as follows: Concepts serve as the building blocks of what are called mental representations (colloquially understood as ideas in the mind). Mental representations, in turn, are the building blocks of what are called propositional attitudes (colloquially understood as the stances or perspectives we take towards ideas, be it "believing", "doubting", "wondering", "accepting", etc.). And these propositional attitudes, in turn, are the building blocks of our understanding of thoughts that populate everyday life, as well as folk psychology. In this way, we have an analysis that ties our common everyday understanding of thoughts down to the scientific and philosophical understanding of concepts.  
      The physicalist view of concepts 
      
      
       See also: Physicalism
      
      In a physicalist theory of mind, a concept is a mental representation, which the brain uses to denote a class of things in the world. This is to say that it is literally, a symbol or group of symbols together made from the physical material of the brain. Concepts are mental representations that allow us to draw appropriate inferences about the type of entities we encounter in our everyday lives. Concepts do not encompass all mental representations, but are merely a subset of them. The use of concepts is necessary to cognitive processes such as categorization, memory, decision making, learning, and inference. 
      Concepts are thought to be stored in long term cortical memory, in contrast to episodic memory of the particular objects and events which they abstract, which are stored in hippocampus. Evidence for this separation comes from hippocampal damaged patients such as patient HM. The abstraction from the day's hippocampal events and objects into cortical concepts is often considered to be the computation underlying (some stages of) sleep and dreaming. Many people (beginning with Aristotle) report memories of dreams which appear to mix the day's events with analogous or related historical concepts and memories, and suggest that they were being sorted or organised into more abstract concepts. ("Sort" is itself another word for concept, and "sorting" thus means to organise into concepts.)  
      Concepts as abstract objects 
      
      
       See also: Abstract and concrete and Abstract object theory
       
      The semantic view of concepts suggests that concepts are abstract objects. In this view, concepts are abstract objects of a category out of a human's mind rather than some mental representations.  
      There is debate as to the relationship between concepts and natural language. However, it is necessary at least to begin by understanding that the concept "dog" is philosophically distinct from the things in the world grouped by this concept—or the reference class or extension. Concepts that can be equated to a single word are called "lexical concepts". 
      The study of concepts and conceptual structure falls into the disciplines of linguistics, philosophy, psychology, and cognitive science. 
      In the simplest terms, a concept is a name or label that regards or treats an abstraction as if it had concrete or material existence, such as a person, a place, or a thing. It may represent a natural object that exists in the real world like a tree, an animal, a stone, etc. It may also name an artificial (man-made) object like a chair, computer, house, etc. Abstract ideas and knowledge domains such as freedom, equality, science, happiness, etc., are also symbolized by concepts. It is important to realize that a concept is merely a symbol, a representation of the abstraction. The word is not to be mistaken for the thing. For example, the word "moon" (a concept) is not the large, bright, shape-changing object up in the sky, but only represents that celestial object. Concepts are created (named) to describe, explain and capture reality as it is known and understood.  
      A priori concepts 
      
      
       Main articles: A priori and a posteriori and Category (Kant)
       
      Kant maintained the view that human minds possess pure or a priori concepts. Instead of being abstracted from individual perceptions, like empirical concepts, they originate in the mind itself. He called these concepts categories, in the sense of the word that means predicate, attribute, characteristic, or quality. But these pure categories are predicates of things in general, not of a particular thing. According to Kant, there are twelve categories that constitute the understanding of phenomenal objects. Each category is that one predicate which is common to multiple empirical concepts. In order to explain how an a priori concept can relate to individual phenomena, in a manner analogous to an a posteriori concept, Kant employed the technical concept of the schema. He held that the account of the concept as an abstraction of experience is only partly correct. He called those concepts that result from abstraction "a posteriori concepts" (meaning concepts that arise out of experience). An empirical or an a posteriori concept is a general representation (Vorstellung) or non-specific thought of that which is common to several specific perceived objects (Logic, I, 1., §1, Note 1) 
      A concept is a common feature or characteristic. Kant investigated the way that empirical a posteriori concepts are created.  
      
      
       The logical acts of the understanding by which concepts are generated as to their form are: 
       
        comparison, i.e., the likening of mental images to one another in relation to the unity of consciousness; 
        reflection, i.e., the going back over different mental images, how they can be comprehended in one consciousness; and finally 
        abstraction or the segregation of everything else by which the mental images differ ...
       
        In order to make our mental images into concepts, one must thus be able to compare, reflect, and abstract, for these three logical operations of the understanding are essential and general conditions of generating any concept whatever. For example, I see a fir, a willow, and a linden. In firstly comparing these objects, I notice that they are different from one another in respect of trunk, branches, leaves, and the like; further, however, I reflect only on what they have in common, the trunk, the branches, the leaves themselves, and abstract from their size, shape, and so forth; thus I gain a concept of a tree.
       
        — Logic, §6
       
       
      Embodied content 
      
      
       Main article: Embodied cognition
       
      In cognitive linguistics, abstract concepts are transformations of concrete concepts derived from embodied experience. The mechanism of transformation is structural mapping, in which properties of two or more source domains are selectively mapped onto a blended space (Fauconnier &amp; Turner, 1995; see conceptual blending). A common class of blends are metaphors. This theory contrasts with the rationalist view that concepts are perceptions (or recollections, in Plato's term) of an independently existing world of ideas, in that it denies the existence of any such realm. It also contrasts with the empiricist view that concepts are abstract generalizations of individual experiences, because the contingent and bodily experience is preserved in a concept, and not abstracted away. While the perspective is compatible with Jamesian pragmatism, the notion of the transformation of embodied concepts through structural mapping makes a distinct contribution to the problem of concept formation.  
      Realist universal concepts 
      
      
       Main article: Platonic realism
       
      Platonist views of the mind construe concepts as abstract objects. Plato was the starkest proponent of the realist thesis of universal concepts. By his view, concepts (and ideas in general) are innate ideas that were instantiations of a transcendental world of pure forms that lay behind the veil of the physical world. In this way, universals were explained as transcendent objects. Needless to say, this form of realism was tied deeply with Plato's ontological projects. This remark on Plato is not of merely historical interest. For example, the view that numbers are Platonic objects was revived by Kurt Gödel as a result of certain puzzles that he took to arise from the phenomenological accounts.  
      Sense and reference 
      
      
       Main article: Sense and reference
       
      Gottlob Frege, founder of the analytic tradition in philosophy, famously argued for the analysis of language in terms of sense and reference. For him, the sense of an expression in language describes a certain state of affairs in the world, namely, the way that some object is presented. Since many commentators view the notion of sense as identical to the notion of concept, and Frege regards senses as the linguistic representations of states of affairs in the world, it seems to follow that we may understand concepts as the manner in which we grasp the world. Accordingly, concepts (as senses) have an ontological status.  
      Concepts in calculus 
      According to Carl Benjamin Boyer, in the introduction to his The History of the Calculus and its Conceptual Development, concepts in calculus do not refer to perceptions. As long as the concepts are useful and mutually compatible, they are accepted on their own. For example, the concepts of the derivative and the integral are not considered to refer to spatial or temporal perceptions of the external world of experience. Neither are they related in any way to mysterious limits in which quantities are on the verge of nascence or evanescence, that is, coming into or going out of existence. The abstract concepts are now considered to be totally autonomous, even though they originated from the process of abstracting or taking away qualities from perceptions until only the common, essential attributes remained.  
      Notable theories on the structure of concepts 
      Classical theory 
      
      
       Main article: Definitionism
       
      The classical theory of concepts, also referred to as the empiricist theory of concepts, is the oldest theory about the structure of concepts (it can be traced back to Aristotle), and was prominently held until the 1970s. The classical theory of concepts says that concepts have a definitional structure. Adequate definitions of the kind required by this theory usually take the form of a list of features. These features must have two important qualities to provide a comprehensive definition. Features entailed by the definition of a concept must be both necessary and sufficient for membership in the class of things covered by a particular concept. A feature is considered necessary if every member of the denoted class has that feature. A feature is considered sufficient if something has all the parts required by the definition. For example, the classic example bachelor is said to be defined by unmarried and man. An entity is a bachelor (by this definition) if and only if it is both unmarried and a man. To check whether something is a member of the class, you compare its qualities to the features in the definition. Another key part of this theory is that it obeys the law of the excluded middle, which means that there are no partial members of a class, you are either in or out. 
      The classical theory persisted for so long unquestioned because it seemed intuitively correct and has great explanatory power. It can explain how concepts would be acquired, how we use them to categorize and how we use the structure of a concept to determine its referent class. In fact, for many years it was one of the major activities in philosophy—concept analysis. Concept analysis is the act of trying to articulate the necessary and sufficient conditions for the membership in the referent class of a concept. For example, Shoemaker's classic "Time Without Change" explored whether the concept of the flow of time can include flows where no changes take place, though change is usually taken as a definition of time.  
      Arguments against the classical theory 
      Given that most later theories of concepts were born out of the rejection of some or all of the classical theory, it seems appropriate to give an account of what might be wrong with this theory. In the 20th century, philosophers such as Wittgenstein and Rosch argued against the classical theory. There are six primary arguments summarized as follows:  
      
       It seems that there simply are no definitions—especially those based in sensory primitive concepts. 
       It seems as though there can be cases where our ignorance or error about a class means that we either don't know the definition of a concept, or have incorrect notions about what a definition of a particular concept might entail. 
       Quine's argument against analyticity in Two Dogmas of Empiricism also holds as an argument against definitions. 
       Some concepts have fuzzy membership. There are items for which it is vague whether or not they fall into (or out of) a particular referent class. This is not possible in the classical theory as everything has equal and full membership. 
       Rosch found typicality effects which cannot be explained by the classical theory of concepts, these sparked the prototype theory. See below. 
       Psychological experiments show no evidence for our using concepts as strict definitions.
       
      Prototype theory 
      
      
       Main article: Prototype theory
       
      Prototype theory came out of problems with the classical view of conceptual structure. Prototype theory says that concepts specify properties that members of a class tend to possess, rather than must possess. Wittgenstein, Rosch, Mervis, Berlin, Anglin, and Posner are a few of the key proponents and creators of this theory. Wittgenstein describes the relationship between members of a class as family resemblances. There are not necessarily any necessary conditions for membership; a dog can still be a dog with only three legs. This view is particularly supported by psychological experimental evidence for prototypicality effects. Participants willingly and consistently rate objects in categories like 'vegetable' or 'furniture' as more or less typical of that class. It seems that our categories are fuzzy psychologically, and so this structure has explanatory power. We can judge an item's membership of the referent class of a concept by comparing it to the typical member—the most central member of the concept. If it is similar enough in the relevant ways, it will be cognitively admitted as a member of the relevant class of entities. Rosch suggests that every category is represented by a central exemplar which embodies all or the maximum possible number of features of a given category. Lech, Gunturkun, and Suchan explain that categorization involves many areas of the brain. Some of these are: visual association areas, prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and temporal lobe. 
      The Prototype perspective is proposed as an alternative view to the Classical approach. While the Classical theory requires an all-or-nothing membership in a group, prototypes allow for more fuzzy boundaries and are characterized by attributes. Lakeoff stresses that experience and cognition are critical to the function of language, and Labov's experiment found that the function that an artifact contributed to what people categorized it as. For example, a container holding mashed potatoes versus tea swayed people toward classifying them as a bowl and a cup, respectively. This experiment also illuminated the optimal dimensions of what the prototype for "cup" is. 
      Prototypes also deal with the essence of things and to what extent they belong to a category. There have been a number of experiments dealing with questionnaires asking participants to rate something according to the extent to which it belongs to a category. This question is contradictory to the Classical Theory because something is either a member of a category or is not. This type of problem is paralleled in other areas of linguistics such as phonology, with an illogical question such as "is /i/ or /o/ a better vowel?" The Classical approach and Aristotelian categories may be a better descriptor in some cases.  
      Theory-theory 
      
      
       Main article: Theory-theory
       
      Theory-theory is a reaction to the previous two theories and develops them further. This theory postulates that categorization by concepts is something like scientific theorizing. Concepts are not learned in isolation, but rather are learned as a part of our experiences with the world around us. In this sense, concepts' structure relies on their relationships to other concepts as mandated by a particular mental theory about the state of the world. How this is supposed to work is a little less clear than in the previous two theories, but is still a prominent and notable theory. This is supposed to explain some of the issues of ignorance and error that come up in prototype and classical theories as concepts that are structured around each other seem to account for errors such as whale as a fish (this misconception came from an incorrect theory about what a whale is like, combining with our theory of what a fish is). When we learn that a whale is not a fish, we are recognizing that whales don't in fact fit the theory we had about what makes something a fish. Theory-theory also postulates that people's theories about the world are what inform their conceptual knowledge of the world. Therefore, analysing people's theories can offer insights into their concepts. In this sense, "theory" means an individual's mental explanation rather than scientific fact. This theory criticizes classical and prototype theory as relying too much on similarities and using them as a sufficient constraint. It suggests that theories or mental understandings contribute more to what has membership to a group rather than weighted similarities, and a cohesive category is formed more by what makes sense to the perceiver. Weights assigned to features have shown to fluctuate and vary depending on context and experimental task demonstrated by Tversky. For this reason, similarities between members may be collateral rather than causal.  
      Ideasthesia 
      
      
       Main article: Ideasthesia
       
      According to the theory of ideasthesia (or "sensing concepts"), activation of a concept may be the main mechanism responsible for the creation of phenomenal experiences. Therefore, understanding how the brain processes concepts may be central to solving the mystery of how conscious experiences (or qualia) emerge within a physical system e.g., the sourness of the sour taste of lemon. This question is also known as the hard problem of consciousness. Research on ideasthesia emerged from research on synesthesia where it was noted that a synesthetic experience requires first an activation of a concept of the inducer. Later research expanded these results into everyday perception. 
      There is a lot of discussion on the most effective theory in concepts. Another theory is semantic pointers, which use perceptual and motor representations and these representations are like symbols.  
      Etymology 
      The term "concept" is traced back to 1554–60 (Latin conceptum – "something conceived").  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Abstraction 
        Categorization 
        Class (philosophy) 
        Concept and object 
        Concept map 
        Conceptual blending 
        Conceptual framework 
        Conceptual history 
        Conceptual model 
        Conversation theory 
        Definitionism 
        Formal concept analysis 
        Fuzzy concept 
        Hypostatic abstraction 
        Idea 
        Ideasthesia 
        Noesis 
        Notion (philosophy) 
        Object (philosophy) 
        Process of concept formation 
        Schema (Kant) 
        Intuitive statistics
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Goguen, Joseph (2005). "What is a Concept?". Conceptual Structures: Common Semantics for Sharing Knowledge. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol.&nbsp;3596. pp.&nbsp;52–77. doi:10.1007/11524564_4. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-27783-5.  
         ^ Chapter 1 of Laurence and Margolis' book called Concepts: Core Readings. 
           ISBN&nbsp;9780262631938  
         ^ Carey, S. (1991). Knowledge Acquisition: Enrichment or Conceptual Change? In S. Carey and R. Gelman (Eds.), The Epigenesis of Mind: Essays on Biology and Cognition (pp. 257-291). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.  
         ^ 
           "Cognitive Science | Brain and Cognitive Sciences".  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i 
           Eric Margolis; Stephen Lawrence. "Concepts". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab at Stanford University. Retrieved 6 November 2012.  
         ^ Eysenck. M. W., (2012) Fundamentals of Cognition (2nd) Psychology Taylor &amp; Francis.  
         ^ Joseph Goguen ""The logic of inexact concepts", Synthese 19 (3/4): 325–373 (1969).  
         ^ a b c 
           Margolis, Eric; Laurence, Stephen (2007). "The Ontology of Concepts—Abstract Objects or Mental Representations?". Nous. 41 (4): 561–593. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.188.9995. doi:10.1111/j.1468-0068.2007.00663.x.  
         ^ Jerry Fodor, Concepts: Where Cognitive Science Went Wrong  
         ^ a b c d e 
           Carey, Susan (2009). The Origin of Concepts. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-536763-8.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q 
           Murphy, Gregory (2002). The Big Book of Concepts. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-13409-5.  
         ^ McCarthy, Gabby (2018) "Introduction to Metaphysics". pg. 35  
         ^ Eysenck. M. W., (2012) Fundamentals of Cognition (2nd) Psychology Taylor &amp; Francis  
         ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n 
           Stephen Lawrence; Eric Margolis (1999). Concepts and Cognitive Science. in Concepts: Core Readings: Massachusetts Institute of Technology. pp.&nbsp;3–83. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-13353-1.  
         ^ 'Godel's Rationalism', Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy  
         ^ a b 
           Brown, Roger (1978). A New Paradigm of Reference. Academic Press Inc. pp.&nbsp;159–166. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-12-497750-1.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           TAYLOR, John R. (1989). Linguistic Categorization: Prototypes In Linguistic Theory.  
         ^ 
           Murphy, Gregory L.; Medin, Douglas L. (1985). "The role of theories in conceptual coherence". Psychological Review. 92 (3): 289–316. doi:10.1037//0033-295x.92.3.289. ISSN&nbsp;0033-295X. PMID&nbsp;4023146.  
         ^ 
           Mroczko-Wä…Sowicz, Aleksandra; Nikoliä‡, Danko (2014). "Semantic mechanisms may be responsible for developing synesthesia". Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. 8: 509. doi:10.3389/fnhum.2014.00509. PMC&nbsp;4137691. PMID&nbsp;25191239.  
         ^ Stevan Harnad (1995). Why and How We Are Not Zombies. Journal of Consciousness Studies 1: 164–167.  
         ^ David Chalmers (1995). Facing Up to the Problem of Consciousness. Journal of Consciousness Studies 2 (3): 200–219.  
         ^ Nikolić, D. (2009) Is synaesthesia actually ideaesthesia? An inquiry into the nature of the phenomenon. Proceedings of the Third International Congress on Synaesthesia, Science &amp; Art, Granada, Spain, April 26–29, 2009.  
         ^ Gómez Milán, E., Iborra, O., de Córdoba, M.J., Juárez-Ramos V., Rodríguez Artacho, M.A., Rubio, J.L. (2013) The Kiki-Bouba effect: A case of personification and ideaesthesia. The Journal of Consciousness Studies. 20(1–2): pp. 84–102.  
         ^ 
           Blouw, Peter; Solodkin, Eugene; Thagard, Paul; Eliasmith, Chris (2016). "Concepts as Semantic Pointers: A Framework and Computational Model". Cognitive Science. 40 (5): 1128–1162. doi:10.1111/cogs.12265. PMID&nbsp;26235459.  
         ^ 
           "Homework Help and Textbook Solutions | bartleby". Archived from the original on 2008-07-06. Retrieved 2011-11-25.The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language: Fourth Edition.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        Armstrong, S. L., Gleitman, L. R., &amp; Gleitman, H. (1999). what some concepts might not be. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, Concepts (pp.&nbsp;225–261). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        Carey, S. (1999). knowledge acquisition: enrichment or conceptual change? In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;459–489). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        Fodor, J. A., Garrett, M. F., Walker, E. C., &amp; Parkes, C. H. (1999). against definitions. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;491–513). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        
         Fodor, Jerry; Lepore, Ernest (1996). "The red herring and the pet fish: Why concepts still can't be prototypes". Cognition. 58 (2): 253–270. doi:10.1016/0010-0277(95)00694-X. PMID&nbsp;8820389. S2CID&nbsp;15356470. 
        Hume, D. (1739). book one part one: of the understanding of ideas, their origin, composition, connexion, abstraction etc. In D. Hume, a treatise of human nature. England. 
        Murphy, G. (2004). Chapter 2. In G. Murphy, a big book of concepts (pp.&nbsp;11 – 41). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        Murphy, G., &amp; Medin, D. (1999). the role of theories in conceptual coherence. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;425–459). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        
         Prinz, Jesse J. (2002). Furnishing the Mind. doi:10.7551/mitpress/3169.001.0001. ISBN&nbsp;9780262281935. 
        Putnam, H. (1999). is semantics possible? In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;177–189). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        Quine, W. (1999). two dogmas of empiricism. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;153–171). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        Rey, G. (1999). Concepts and Stereotypes. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Laurence (Eds.), Concepts: Core Readings (pp.&nbsp;279–301). Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. 
        Rosch, E. (1977). Classification of real-world objects: Origins and representations in cognition. In P. Johnson-Laird, &amp; P. Wason, Thinking: Readings in Cognitive Science (pp.&nbsp;212–223). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
        Rosch, E. (1999). Principles of Categorization. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Laurence (Eds.), Concepts: Core Readings (pp.&nbsp;189–206). Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. 
        
         Schneider, Susan (2011). "Concepts: A Pragmatist Theory". The Language of Thought. pp.&nbsp;159–182. doi:10.7551/mitpress/9780262015578.003.0071. ISBN&nbsp;9780262015578. 
        Wittgenstein, L. (1999). philosophical investigations: sections 65–78. In E. Margolis, &amp; S. Lawrence, concepts: core readings (pp.&nbsp;171–175). Massachusetts: MIT press. 
        The History of Calculus and its Conceptual Development, Carl Benjamin Boyer, Dover Publications, 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-486-60509-4 
        The Writings of William James, University of Chicago Press, 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-226-39188-4 
        Logic, Immanuel Kant, Dover Publications, 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-486-25650-2 
        A System of Logic, John Stuart Mill, University Press of the Pacific, 
         ISBN&nbsp;1-4102-0252-6 
        Parerga and Paralipomena, Arthur Schopenhauer, Volume I, Oxford University Press, 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-19-824508-4 
        Kant's Metaphysic of Experience, H. J. Paton, London: Allen &amp; Unwin, 1936 
        Conceptual Integration Networks. Gilles Fauconnier and Mark Turner, 1998. Cognitive Science. Volume 22, number 2 (April–June 1998), pp.&nbsp;133–187. 
        The Portable Nietzsche, Penguin Books, 1982, 
         ISBN&nbsp;0-14-015062-5 
        Stephen Laurence and Eric Margolis "Concepts and Cognitive Science". In Concepts: Core Readings, MIT Press pp.&nbsp;3–81, 1999. 
        
         Hjørland, Birger (2009). "Concept theory". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 60 (8): 1519–1536. doi:10.1002/asi.21082. 
        Georgij Yu. Somov (2010). Concepts and Senses in Visual Art: Through the example of analysis of some works by Bruegel the Elder. Semiotica 182 (1/4), 475–506. 
        Daltrozzo J, Vion-Dury J, Schön D. (2010). Music and Concepts. Horizons in Neuroscience Research 4: 157–167.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up concept in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article "Concept".
         
       
       
      
       Concept at PhilPapers 
       
        Zalta, Edward N. (ed.). "Concepts". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       Concept at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project 
       
        "Concept". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        "Theory–Theory of Concepts". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       
        "Classical Theory of Concepts". Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 
       Blending and Conceptual Integration 
       Concepts. A Critical Approach, by Andy Blunden 
       Conceptual Science and Mathematical Permutations 
       Concept Mobiles Latest concepts 
       v:Conceptualize: A Wikiversity Learning Project 
       Concept simultaneously translated in several languages and meanings 
       TED-Ed Lesson on ideasthesia (sensing concepts)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy of language
           
         
         
          
           
            Index of language articles
           
         
         
          Philosophers
          
            
            
             Plato (Cratylus) 
             Gorgias 
             Confucius 
             Xunzi 
             Aristotle 
             Stoics 
             Pyrrhonists 
             Scholasticism 
             Ibn Rushd 
             Ibn Khaldun 
             Thomas Hobbes 
             Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
             Johann Herder 
             Ludwig Noiré 
             Wilhelm von Humboldt 
             Fritz Mauthner 
             Paul Ricœur 
             Ferdinand de Saussure 
             Gottlob Frege 
             Franz Boas 
             Paul Tillich 
             Edward Sapir 
             Leonard Bloomfield 
             Zhuangzi 
             Henri Bergson 
             Lev Vygotsky 
             Ludwig Wittgenstein 
              
               Philosophical Investigations 
               Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
               
             Bertrand Russell 
             Rudolf Carnap 
             Jacques Derrida 
              
               Of Grammatology 
               Limited Inc
               
             Benjamin Lee Whorf 
             Gustav Bergmann 
             J. L. Austin 
             Noam Chomsky 
             Hans-Georg Gadamer 
             Saul Kripke 
             A. J. Ayer 
             G. E. M. Anscombe 
             Jaakko Hintikka 
             Michael Dummett 
             Donald Davidson 
             Roger Gibson 
             Paul Grice 
             Gilbert Ryle 
             P. F. Strawson 
             Willard Van Orman Quine 
             Hilary Putnam 
             David Lewis 
             Robert Stalnaker 
             John Searle 
             Joxe Azurmendi 
             Scott Soames 
             Stephen Yablo 
             John Hawthorne 
             Stephen Neale 
             Paul Watzlawick 
             Richard Montague 
             Barbara Partee
             
           
         
         
          Theories
          
            
            
             Causal theory of reference 
             Contrast theory of meaning 
             Contrastivism 
             Conventionalism 
             Cratylism 
             Deconstruction 
             Descriptivism 
             Direct reference theory 
             Dramatism 
             Dynamic semantics 
             Expressivism 
             Inquisitive semantics 
             Linguistic determinism 
             Mediated reference theory 
             Nominalism 
             Non-cognitivism 
             Phallogocentrism 
             Relevance theory 
             Semantic externalism 
             Semantic holism 
             Situation semantics 
             Structuralism 
             Supposition theory 
             Symbiosism 
             Theological noncognitivism 
             Theory of descriptions (Definite description) 
             Unilalianism 
             Verification theory
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Ambiguity 
             Cant 
             Linguistic relativity 
             Language 
             Truth-bearer 
             Proposition 
             Use–mention distinction 
             Concept 
             Categories 
             Set 
             Class 
             Family resemblance 
             Intension 
             Logical form 
             Metalanguage 
             Mental representation 
             Modality (natural language) 
             Presupposition 
             Principle of compositionality 
             Property 
             Sign 
             Sense and reference 
             Speech act 
             Symbol 
             Sentence 
             Statement 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Analytic philosophy 
             Philosophy of information 
             Philosophical logic 
             Linguistics 
             Pragmatics 
             Rhetoric 
             Semantics 
             Formal semantics 
             Semiotics
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Task Force 
             Discussion
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy of mind
           
         
         
          Philosophers
          
            
            
             Anscombe 
             Austin 
             Aquinas 
             Bain 
             Bergson 
             Bhattacharya 
             Block 
             Brentano 
             Broad 
             Burge 
             Chalmers 
             Churchland 
             Dennett 
             Dharmakirti 
             Davidson 
             Descartes 
             Goldman 
             Heidegger 
             Husserl 
             Feyerabend 
             Fodor 
             James 
             Kierkegaard 
             Leibniz 
             Lewis 
             McDowell 
             Merleau-Ponty 
             Minsky 
             Moore 
             Nagel 
             Parfit 
             Putnam 
             Popper 
             Rorty 
             Ryle 
             Searle 
             Spinoza 
             Turing 
             Vasubandhu 
             Wittgenstein 
             Zhuangzi 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          Theories
          
            
            
             Behaviorism 
             Biological naturalism 
             Dualism 
             Eliminative materialism 
             Emergent materialism 
             Epiphenomenalism 
             Functionalism 
             Idealism 
             Interactionism 
             Materialism 
             Monism 
             Naïve realism 
              
               Neurophenomenology
               
             Neutral monism 
             Occasionalism 
             Parallelism 
             Phenomenalism 
             Phenomenology 
             Physicalism 
              
               identity theory
               
             Property dualism 
             Representational 
             Solipsism 
             Substance dualism
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Abstract object 
             Artificial intelligence 
             Chinese room 
             Cognition 
             Cognitive closure 
             Concept 
             Concept and object 
             Consciousness 
             Hard problem of consciousness 
             Hypostatic abstraction 
             Idea 
             Identity 
             Ingenuity 
             Intelligence 
             Intentionality 
             Introspection 
             Intuition 
             Language of thought 
             Materialism 
             Mental event 
             Mental image 
             Mental process 
             Mental property 
             Mental representation 
             Mind 
             Mind–body problem 
             New mysterianism 
             Pain 
             Problem of other minds 
             Propositional attitude 
             Qualia 
             Tabula rasa 
             Understanding 
             Zombie 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Metaphysics 
             Philosophy of artificial intelligence&nbsp;/ information&nbsp;/ perception&nbsp;/ self
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Philosophers category 
             Project 
             Task Force
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Concept&amp;oldid=1066665906"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Abstraction
       Cognitive science
       Concepts
       Mental content
       Concepts in metaphysics
       Ontology
       Philosophy of language
       Philosophy of mind
       Semantics
       Thought
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2011
       Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020
       Articles with Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy links
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Bahasa Melayu
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Ripoarisch
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       文言
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 19 January 2022, at 13:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
