
 
  
   
  Society - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Society 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     
      
       
       
      
       
        This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 5 February 2022.
        
       
      
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Society (disambiguation).
       
        
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (May 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
         
        
        
         
          Societies. Left to right, from top: a crowd shopping for Diwali in Nagpur, Maharashtra, India; Thai provincial election 20 December 2020, Koh Samui, Surat Thani Province; commuters on a Hong Kong train; protesters against new abortion restrictions in Poland; a family in Savannakhet province of Laos eat outdoors; a military parade on a Spanish national holiday.
         
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Anthropology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            Outline
            History
           
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Types
           
            
            
             Archaeological 
             Biological 
             Cultural 
             Linguistic 
             Social
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Archaeological
           
            
            
             Aerial 
             Aviation 
             Battlefield 
             Biblical 
             Bioarchaeological 
             Environmental 
             Ethnoarchaeological 
             Experiential 
             Feminist 
             Forensic 
             Maritime 
             Paleoethnobotanical 
             Zooarchaeological
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Biological
           
            
            
             Anthrozoological 
             Biocultural 
             Evolutionary 
             Forensic 
             Molecular 
              Neurological 
             Nutritional 
             Paleoanthropological 
             Primatological
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            
             
              Social
              Cultural
             
            
           
            
            
             Applied 
             Art 
             Cognitive 
             Cyborg 
             Development 
             Digital 
             Ecological 
             Environmental 
             Economic 
             Political economy 
             Feminist 
             Food 
             Historical 
             Institutional 
             Kinship 
             Legal 
             Media 
             Medical 
             Museums 
             Musical 
             Political 
             Psychological 
             Public 
             Religion 
             Symbolic 
             Transpersonal 
             Urban 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Linguistic
           
            
            
             Anthropological 
             Descriptive 
             Ethnological 
             Ethnopoetical 
             Historical 
             Semiotic 
             Sociological
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research framework
           
            
            
             Anthropometry 
             Ethnography 
              
               cyber
               
             Ethnology 
             Cross-cultural comparison 
             Participant observation 
             Holism 
             Reflexivity 
             Thick description 
             Cultural relativism 
             Ethnocentrism 
             Emic and etic
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Key concepts
           
            
            
             Culture 
             Development 
             Ethnicity 
             Evolution 
              
               sociocultural
               
             Gender 
             Kinship and descent 
             Meme 
             Prehistory 
             Race 
             Society 
             Value 
             Colonialism&nbsp;/ Postcolonialism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Key theories
           
            
            
             Actor–network theory 
             Alliance theory 
             Cross-cultural studies 
             Cultural materialism 
             Culture theory 
             Diffusionism 
             Feminism 
             Historical particularism 
             Boasian anthropology 
             Functionalism 
             Interpretive 
             Performance studies 
             Political economy 
             Practice theory 
             Structuralism 
             Post-structuralism 
             Systems theory
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Anthropologists by nationality 
             Anthropology by year 
             Bibliography 
             Journals 
             List of indigenous peoples 
             Organizations
            
           
           
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Sociology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Key themes
           
            
            
             Society 
             Globalization 
             Human behavior 
             Human environmental impact 
             Identity 
             Industrial revolutions 3 &amp; 4 
             Social complexity 
             Social construct 
             Social environment 
             Social equality 
             Social equity 
             Social power 
             Social stratification 
             Social structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Perspectives
           
            
            
             Conflict theory 
             Critical theory 
             Structural functionalism 
             Positivism 
             Social constructionism 
             Symbolic interactionism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aging 
             Architecture 
             Art 
             Astrosociology 
             Body 
             Criminology 
             Consciousness 
             Culture 
             Death 
             Demography 
             Deviance 
             Disaster 
             Economic 
             Education 
             Emotion (Jealousy) 
             Environmental 
             Family 
             Feminist 
             Fiscal 
             Food 
             Gender 
             Generations 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Immigration 
             Industrial 
             Internet 
             Jewry 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Law 
             Leisure 
             Literature 
             Marxist 
             Mathematic 
             Medical 
             Military 
             Music 
             Peace, war, and social conflict 
             Philosophy 
             Political 
             Public 
             Punishment 
             Race and ethnicity 
             Religion 
             Rural 
             Science (History of science) 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociocybernetics 
             Sociology 
             Space 
             Sport 
             Technology 
             Terrorism 
             Urban 
             Utopian 
             Victimology 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Quantitative 
             Qualitative 
             Comparative 
             Computational 
             Ethnographic 
             Conversation analysis 
             Historical 
             Interview 
             Mathematical 
             Network analysis 
             Social experiment 
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
            East Asia 
            
             1900s 
              
               Fei Xiaotong
              
             
            South Asia   
            
             1800s 
              
               G.S Ghurye
               
             1900s 
              
               Irawati Karve 
               M. N. Srinivas
              
             
            Middle East  
            
             1400s 
              
               Ibn Khaldun
              
             
            Europe  
            
             1700s 
              
               Auguste Comte 
               Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès
               
             1800s 
              
               Émile Durkheim 
               Harriet Martineau 
               Karl Marx 
               Georg Simmel 
               Herbert Spencer 
               Ferdinand Tönnies 
               Max Weber
               
             1900s 
              
               Michel Foucault 
               Jürgen Habermas
              
             
            North America  
            
             1800s 
              
               Jane Addams 
               Ernest Burgess 
               W.E.B. Du Bois 
               George Herbert Mead 
               Thorstein Veblen
               
             1900s 
              
               James Coleman 
               Patricia Hill Collins 
               Erving Goffman 
               Paul Lazarsfeld 
               Charles Wright Mills 
               Robert K. Merton 
               Theda Skocpol 
               Dorothy E. Smith
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Bibliography 
             Terminology 
             Journals 
             Organizations 
             People 
             Timeline 
             By country
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Society portal 
           WikiProject Sociology
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      A society is a group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same spatial or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions; a given society may be described as the sum total of such relationships among its constituent of members. In the social sciences, a larger society often exhibits stratification or dominance patterns in subgroups. 
      Societies construct patterns of behavior by deeming certain actions or concepts as acceptable or unacceptable. These patterns of behavior within a given society are known as societal norms. Societies, and their norms, undergo gradual and perpetual changes. 
      Insofar as it is collaborative, a society can enable its members to benefit in ways that would otherwise be difficult on an individual basis; both individual and social (common) benefits can thus be distinguished, or in many cases found to overlap. A society can also consist of like-minded people governed by their own norms and values within a dominant, larger society. This is sometimes referred to as a subculture, a term used extensively within criminology, and also applied to distinctive subsections of a larger society. 
      More broadly, and especially within structuralist thought, a society may be illustrated as an economic, social, industrial or cultural infrastructure, made up of, yet distinct from, a varied collection of individuals. In this regard society can mean the objective relationships people have with the material world and with other people, rather than "other people" beyond the individual and their familiar social environment.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology and usage 
        2 Conceptions 
          
          2.1 In political science 
          2.2 In sociology 
           
        3 Types 
          
          3.1 Pre-industrial 
            
            3.1.1 Hunting and gathering 
            3.1.2 Pastoral 
            3.1.3 Horticultural 
            3.1.4 Agrarian 
            3.1.5 Feudal 
             
          3.2 Industrial 
          3.3 Post-industrial 
           
        4 Contemporary usage 
          
          4.1 Western 
          4.2 Information 
          4.3 Knowledge 
          4.4 Other uses 
           
        5 See also 
        6 Notes 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        9 External links 
        
       
      Etymology and usage 
      
       
        
         
        
        
         
           
         A half-section of the 12th-century Southern Song dynasty version of The Night Revels of Han Xizai, original by Gu Hongzhong in the 10th century. The painting portrays servants, musicians, monks, children, guests, and hosts all in a single social environment. It serves as an in-depth look into the Chinese social structure of the time.
        
       
       
      The term "society" came from the 12th Century French société (meaning 'company'). This was in turn from the Latin word societas, which in turn was derived from the noun socius ("comrade, friend, ally"; adjectival form socialis) used to describe a bond or interaction between parties that are friendly, or at least civil. Without an article, the term can refer to the entirety of humanity (also: "society in general", "society at large", etc.), although those who are unfriendly or uncivil to the remainder of society in this sense may be deemed to be "antisocial". In the 1630s it was used in reference to "people bound by neighborhood and intercourse aware of living together in an ordered community". However, in the 18th century the Scottish economist, Adam Smith taught that a society "may subsist among different men, as among different merchants, from a sense of its utility without any mutual love or affection, if only they refrain from doing injury to each other." 
      Used in the sense of an association, a society is a body of individuals outlined by the bounds of functional interdependence, possibly comprising characteristics such as national or cultural identity, social solidarity, language, or hierarchical structure.  
      Conceptions 
      Society, in general, addresses the fact that an individual has rather limited means as an autonomous unit. The great apes have always been more (Bonobo, Homo, Pan) or less (Gorilla, Pongo) social animals, so Robinson Crusoe-like situations are either fictions or unusual corner cases to the ubiquity of social context for humans, who fall between presocial and eusocial in the spectrum of animal ethology. 
      Cultural relativism as a widespread approach or ethic has largely replaced notions of "primitive", better/worse, or "progress" in relation to cultures (including their material culture/technology and social organization). 
      According to anthropologist Maurice Godelier, one critical novelty in society, in contrast to humanity's closest biological relatives (chimpanzees and bonobos), is the parental role assumed by the males, which supposedly would be absent in our nearest relatives for whom paternity is not generally determinable.  
      In political science 
      Societies may also be structured politically. In order of increasing size and complexity, there are bands, tribes, chiefdoms, and state societies. These structures may have varying degrees of political power, depending on the cultural, geographical, and historical environments that these societies must contend with. Thus, a more isolated society with the same level of technology and culture as other societies is more likely to survive than one in close proximity to others that may encroach on their resources. A society that is unable to offer an effective response to other societies it competes with will usually be subsumed into the culture of the competing society.  
      In sociology 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The social group enables its members to benefit in ways that would not otherwise be possible on an individual basis. Both individual and social (common) goals can thus be distinguished and considered. Ant (formicidae) social ethology.
        
       
       
      Sociologist Peter L. Berger defines society as "...a human product, and nothing but a human product, that yet continuously acts upon its producers." According to him, society was created by humans, but this creation turns back and creates or molds humans every day.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Canis lupus social ethology
        
       
       
      Sociologist Gerhard Lenski differentiates societies based on their level of technology, communication, and economy: (1) hunters and gatherers, (2) simple agricultural, (3) advanced agricultural, (4) industrial, and (5) special (e.g. fishing societies or maritime societies). This is similar to the system earlier developed by anthropologists Morton H. Fried, a conflict theorist, and Elman Service, an integration theorist, who have produced a system of classification for societies in all human cultures based on the evolution of social inequality and the role of the state. This system of classification contains four categories:  
      
       Hunter-gatherer bands (categorization of duties and responsibilities). Then came the agricultural society. 
       Tribal societies in which there are some limited instances of social rank and prestige. 
       Stratified structures led by chieftains. 
       Civilizations, with complex social hierarchies and organized, institutional governments.
       
      In addition to this there are:  
      
       Humanity, humankind, upon which rest all the elements of society, including society's beliefs. 
       Virtual society, a society based on online identity, which is evolving in the information age.
       
      Over time, some cultures have progressed toward more complex forms of organization and control. This cultural evolution has a profound effect on patterns of community. Hunter-gatherer tribes settled around seasonal food stocks to become agrarian villages. Villages grew to become towns and cities. Cities turned into city-states and nation-states. 
      Many societies distribute largess at the behest of some individual or some larger group of people. This type of generosity can be seen in all known cultures; typically, prestige accrues to the generous individual or group. Conversely, members of a society may also shun or scapegoat any members of the society who violate its norms. Mechanisms such as gift-giving, joking relationships and scapegoating, which may be seen in various types of human groupings, tend to be institutionalized within a society. Social evolution as a phenomenon carries with it certain elements that could be detrimental to the population it serves. 
      Some societies bestow status on an individual or group of people when that individual or group performs an admired or desired action. This type of recognition is bestowed in the form of a name, title, manner of dress, or monetary reward. In many societies, adult male or female status is subject to a ritual or process of this type. Altruistic action in the interests of the larger group is seen in virtually all societies. The phenomena of community action, shunning, scapegoating, generosity, shared risk, and reward is common to many forms of society.  
      Types 
      Societies are social groups that differ according to subsistence strategies, the ways that humans use technology to provide needs for themselves. Although humans have established many types of societies throughout history, anthropologists tend to classify different societies according to the degree to which different groups within a society have unequal access to advantages such as resources, prestige, or power. Virtually all societies have developed some degree of inequality among their people through the process of social stratification, the division of members of a society into levels with unequal wealth, prestige, or power. Sociologists place societies in three broad categories: pre-industrial, industrial, and postindustrial.  
      Pre-industrial 
      
      
       Main article: Pre-industrial society
       
      In a pre-industrial society, food production, which is carried out through the use of human and animal labor, is the main economic activity. These societies can be subdivided according to their level of technology and their method of producing food. These subdivisions are hunting and gathering, pastoral, horticultural, agricultural, and feudal.  
      Hunting and gathering 
      
      
       Main article: Hunter-gatherer society
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         San people in Botswana start a fire by hand.
        
       
       
      The main form of food production in such societies is the daily collection of wild plants and the hunting of wild animals. Hunter-gatherers move around constantly in search of food. As a result, they do not build permanent villages or create a wide variety of artifacts, and usually only form small groups such as bands and tribes. However, some hunting and gathering societies in areas with abundant resources (such as people of tlingit) lived in larger groups and formed complex hierarchical social structures such as chiefdom. The need for mobility also limits the size of these societies. They generally consist of fewer than 60 people and rarely exceed 100. Statuses within the tribe are relatively equal, and decisions are reached through general agreement. The ties that bind the tribe are more complex than those of the bands. Leadership is personal—charismatic—and used for special purposes only in tribal society. There are no political offices containing real power, and a chief is merely a person of influence, a sort of adviser; therefore, tribal consolidations for collective action are not governmental. The family forms the main social unit, with most members being related by birth or marriage. This type of organization requires the family to carry out most social functions, including production and education.  
      Pastoral 
      
      
       Main article: Pastoral society
       
      Pastoralism is a slightly more efficient form of subsistence. Rather than searching for food on a daily basis, members of a pastoral society rely on domesticated herd animals to meet their food needs. Pastoralists live a nomadic life, moving their herds from one pasture to another. Because their food supply is far more reliable, pastoral societies can support larger populations. Since there are food surpluses, fewer people are needed to produce food. As a result, the division of labor (the specialization by individuals or groups in the performance of specific economic activities) becomes more complex. For example, some people become craftworkers, producing tools, weapons, and jewelry, among other items of value. The production of goods encourages trade. This trade helps to create inequality, as some families acquire more goods than others do. These families often gain power through their increased wealth. The passing on of property from one generation to another helps to centralize wealth and power. Over time emerge hereditary chieftainships, the typical form of government in pastoral societies.  
      Horticultural 
      
      
       Main article: Horticulturalist society
       
      Fruits and vegetables grown in garden plots that have been cleared from the jungle or forest provide the main source of food in a horticultural society. These societies have a level of technology and complexity similar to pastoral societies. Some horticultural groups use the slash-and-burn method to raise crops. The wild vegetation is cut and burned, and ashes are used as fertilizers. Horticulturists use human labor and simple tools to cultivate the land for one or more seasons. When the land becomes barren, horticulturists clear a new plot and leave the old plot to revert to its natural state. They may return to the original land several years later and begin the process again. By rotating their garden plots, horticulturists can stay in one area for a fairly long period of time. This allows them to build semipermanent or permanent villages. The size of a village's population depends on the amount of land available for farming; thus villages can range from as few as 30 people to as many as 2000. 
      As with pastoral societies, surplus food leads to a more complex division of labor. Specialized roles in horticultural societies include craftspeople, shamans (religious leaders), and traders. This role specialization allows people to create a wide variety of artifacts. As in pastoral societies, surplus food can lead to inequalities in wealth and power within horticultural political systems, developed because of the settled nature of horticultural life.  
      Agrarian 
      
      
       Main article: Agrarian society
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Ploughing with oxen in the 15th century
        
       
       
      Agrarian societies use agricultural technological advances to cultivate crops over a large area. Sociologists use the phrase agricultural revolution to refer to the technological changes that occurred as long as 8,500 years ago that led to cultivating crops and raising farm animals. Increases in food supplies then led to larger populations than in earlier communities. This meant a greater surplus, which resulted in towns that became centers of trade supporting various rulers, educators, craftspeople, merchants, and religious leaders who did not have to worry about locating nourishment. 
      Greater degrees of social stratification appeared in agrarian societies. For example, women previously had higher social status because they shared labor more equally with men. In hunting and gathering societies, women even gathered more food than men. However, as food stores improved and women took on lesser roles in providing food for the family, they increasingly became subordinate to men. As villages and towns expanded into neighboring areas, conflicts with other communities inevitably occurred. Farmers provided warriors with food in exchange for protection against invasion by enemies. A system of rulers with high social status also appeared. This nobility organized warriors to protect the society from invasion. In this way, the nobility managed to extract goods from "lesser" members of society.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Cleric, knight and peasant; an example of feudal societies
        
       
       
      Feudal 
      
      
       Main article: Feudal society
       
      Feudalism was a form of society based on ownership of land. Unlike today's farmers, vassals under feudalism were bound to cultivating their lord's land. In exchange for military protection, the lords exploited the peasants into providing food, crops, crafts, homage, and other services to the landowner. The estates of the realm system of feudalism was often multigenerational; the families of peasants may have cultivated their lord's land for generations.  
      Industrial 
      
      
       Main article: Industrial societies
       
      Between the 15th and 16th centuries, a new economic system emerged that began to replace feudalism. Capitalism is marked by open competition in a free market, in which the means of production are privately owned. Europe's exploration of the Americas served as one impetus for the development of capitalism. The introduction of foreign metals, silks, and spices stimulated great commercial activity in European societies. 
      Industrial societies rely heavily on machines powered by fuels for the production of goods. This produced further dramatic increases in efficiency. The increased efficiency of production of the industrial revolution produced an even greater surplus than before. Now the surplus was not just agricultural goods, but also manufactured goods. This larger surplus caused all of the changes discussed earlier in the domestication revolution to become even more pronounced. 
      Once again, the population boomed. Increased productivity made more goods available to everyone. However, inequality became even greater than before. The breakup of agricultural-based feudal societies caused many people to leave the land and seek employment in cities. This created a great surplus of labor and gave capitalists plenty of laborers who could be hired for extremely low wages.  
      Post-industrial 
      
      
       Main article: Post-industrial society
       
      
      
       See also: Information revolution
       
      Post-industrial societies are societies dominated by information, services, and high technology more than the production of goods. Advanced industrial societies are now seeing a shift toward an increase in service sectors over manufacturing and production. The United States is the first country to have over half of its workforce employed in service industries. Service industries include government, research, education, health, sales, law, and banking.  
      Contemporary usage 
      The term "society" is currently used to cover both a number of political and scientific connotations as well as a variety of associations.  
      Western 
      
      
       Main article: Western world
       
      The development of the Western world has brought with it the emerging concepts of Western culture, politics, and ideas, often referred to simply as "Western society". Geographically, it covers at the very least the countries of Western Europe, North America, Australia, and New Zealand. It sometimes also includes Eastern Europe, South America, and Israel. 
      The cultures and lifestyles of all of these stem from Western Europe. They all enjoy relatively strong economies and stable governments, allow freedom of religion, have chosen democracy as a form of governance, favor capitalism and international trade, are heavily influenced by Judeo-Christian values, and have some form of political and military alliance or cooperation.  
      Information 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         World Summit on the Information Society, Geneva
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Information society
       
      Although the concept of information society has been under discussion since the 1930s, in the modern world it is almost always applied to the manner in which information technologies have impacted society and culture. It, therefore, covers the effects of computers and telecommunications on the home, the workplace, schools, government, and various communities and organizations, as well as the emergence of new social forms in cyberspace. 
      One of the European Union's areas of interest is the information society. Here policies are directed towards promoting an open and competitive digital economy, research into information and communication technologies, as well as their application to improve social inclusion, public services, and quality of life. 
      The International Telecommunication Union's World Summit on the Information Society in Geneva and Tunis (2003 and 2005) has led to a number of policy and application areas where action is envisaged.  
      Knowledge 
      
      
       Main article: Knowledge society
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Seoul Cyworld control room
        
       
       
      As the access to electronic information resources increased at the beginning of the 21st century, special attention was extended from the information society to the knowledge society. An analysis by the Irish government stated, "The capacity to manipulate, store and transmit large quantities of information cheaply has increased at a staggering rate over recent years. The digitisation of information and the associated pervasiveness of the Internet are facilitating a new intensity in the application of knowledge to economic activity, to the extent that it has become the predominant factor in the creation of wealth. As much as 70 to 80 percent of economic growth is now said to be due to new and better knowledge."  
      Other uses 
       
       
         
         
          
           
            
             
             
             
              
             
            
           
           
         
         
         Scheme of sustainable development: at the confluence of three constituent parts. (2006) 
        
       
       
      People of many nations united by common political and cultural traditions, beliefs, or values are sometimes also said to form a society (such as Judeo-Christian, Eastern, and Western). When used in this context, the term is employed as a means of contrasting two or more "societies" whose members represent alternative conflicting and competing worldviews. 
      Some academic, professional, and scientific associations describe themselves as societies (for example, the American Mathematical Society, the American Society of Civil Engineers, or the Royal Society). 
      In some countries, e.g. the United States, France, and Latin America, the term "society' is used in commerce to denote a partnership between investors or the start of a business. In the United Kingdom, partnerships are not called societies, but co-operatives or mutuals are often known as societies (such as friendly societies and building societies).  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Society portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Civil society 
        Club (organization) 
        Consumer society 
        Community (outline) 
        Culture (outline) 
        Eusociality 
        High society (group) 
        Mass society 
        Open society 
        Outline of society 
        Presociality 
        Professional society 
        Religion (outline) 
        Scientific society 
        Secret societies 
        Sociobiology 
        Social actions 
        Social capital 
        Social cohesion 
        Societal collapse 
        Social contract 
        Social disintegration 
        Social order 
        Social solidarity 
        Social structure 
        Social system 
        Social work 
        Structure and agency
        
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ "Society". Merriam-webster dictionary. Retrieved 6 May 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Society (n.)". Online Etymological Dictionary. Retrieved 6 May 2021.  
        ^ Briggs 2000, p.&nbsp;9  
        ^ Maurice Godelier, Métamorphoses de la parenté, 2004  
        ^ 
          Jack Goody. "The Labyrinth of Kinship". New Left Review. Archived from the original on 27 September 2007. Retrieved 24 July 2007.  
        ^ 
          Berger, Peter L. (1967). The Scared Canopy: Elements of a Sociological Theory of Religion. Garden City, NYC: Doubleday &amp; Company, Inc. p.&nbsp;3.  
        ^ Lenski, G. 1974. Human Societies: An Introduction to Macrosociology.  
        ^ Effland, R. 1998. The Cultural Evolution of Civilizations Archived 15 May 2016 at the Portuguese Web Archive.  
        ^ John P McKay, Bennett D Hill, John Buckler, Clare Haru Crowston and Merry E Wiesner-Hanks: Western Society: A Brief History. Palgrave Macmillan, 2009. Archived 1 January 2011 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ The Information Society. Indiana University. Archived 7 October 2009 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 20 October 2009.  
        ^ Information Society Policies at a Glance. From Europa.eu. Archived 24 March 2010 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 20 October 2009.  
        ^ WSIS Implementation by Action Line. From ITU.int. Archived 26 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 20 October 2009.  
        ^ Building the Knowledge Society. Report to Government, December 2002. Information Society Commission, Ireland Archived 21 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 20 October 2009.  
       
       
      References 
      
       
        Boyd, Robert; Richerson, Peter J. (12 November 2009). "Culture and the evolution of human cooperation". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 364 (1533): 3281–3288. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0134. PMC&nbsp;2781880. PMID&nbsp;19805434. 
       
        Bicchieri, Cristina; Muldoon, Ryan; Sontuoso, Alessandro (1 March 2011). "Social Norms". 
       
        Clutton-Brock, T.; West, S.; Ratnieks, F.; Foley, R. (12 November 2009). "The evolution of society". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 364 (1533): 3127–3133. doi:10.1098/rstb.2009.0207. PMC&nbsp;2781882. PMID&nbsp;19805421. 
       
        Rummel, R.J. (1976). "The State, Political System and Society". Understanding Conflict and War, Vol. 2: The Conflict Helix. 
       
        Dunfey, Theo Spanos (29 May 2019). "What is Social Change and Why Should We Care?". Southern New Hampshire University.
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        Effland, R. 1998. The Cultural Evolution of Civilizations Mesa Community College. 
        
         Jenkins, Richard (2002). Foundations of Sociology. London: Palgrave MacMillan. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-333-96050-9. 
        
         Lenski, Gerhard E. (1974). Human Societies: An Introduction to Macrosociology. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-07-037172-9. 
        Raymond Williams, Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society. Fontana, 1976. 
        Althusser, Louis and Balibar, Étienne. Reading Capital. London: Verso, 2009. 
        Bottomore, Tom (ed). A Dictionary of Marxist Thought, 2nd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 1991. 45–48. 
        Calhoun, Craig (ed), Dictionary of the Social Sciences Oxford University Press (2002) 
        Hall, Stuart. "Rethinking the Base and Superstructure Metaphor". Papers on Class, Hegemony and Party. Bloomfield, J., ed. London: Lawrence &amp; Wishart, 1977. 
        Chris Harman. "Base and Superstructure". International Socialism 2:32, Summer 1986, pp.&nbsp;3–44. 
        Harvey, David. A Companion to Marx's Capital. London: Verso, 2010. 
        Larrain, Jorge. Marxism and Ideology. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1983. 
        Lukács, Georg. History and Class Consciousness. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1972. 
        Postone, Moishe. Time, Labour, and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory. Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 1993. 
        Williams, Raymond. Marxism and Literature. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977. 
        Leonid Griffen. The society as a superorganism. The scientific heritage. No 67 Vol 5. P. 51–60, 2021. 
        
         Briggs, Asa (2000). The Age of Improvement (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Longman. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-582-36959-7.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up Society in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Society.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Society
         
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Humanities
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Anthropology 
             Digital humanities 
             History 
             Law 
             Literature 
             Performing arts 
             Politics 
             Philosophy 
             Religious studies 
             Visual arts
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social and political philosophy
           
         
         
          Ancient
          
            
            
             Aristotle 
             Augustine 
             Chanakya 
             Cicero 
             Confucius 
             Han Fei 
             Lactantius 
             Laozi 
             Mencius 
             Mozi 
             Origen 
             Philo 
             Plato 
             Plutarch 
             Polybius 
             Shang 
             Sun Tzu 
             Tertullian 
             Thucydides 
             Valluvar 
             Xenophon 
             Xunzi
             
           
         
         
          Medieval
          
            
            
             Alpharabius 
             Aquinas 
             Avempace 
             Averroes 
             Baldus 
             Bartolus 
             Bruni 
             Dante 
             Gelasius 
             al-Ghazali 
             Giles 
             Gratian 
             Gregory 
             Ibn Khaldun 
             John of Salisbury 
             Latini 
             Maimonides 
             Marsilius 
             Muhammad 
             Nizam al-Mulk 
             Ockham 
             Photios 
             Ibn Tufail 
             Wang
             
           
         
         
          Early modern
          
            
            
             Beza 
             Boétie 
             Bodin 
             Bossuet 
             Buchanan 
             Calvin 
             Duplessis-Mornay 
             Erasmus 
             Filmer 
             Grotius 
             Guicciardini 
             Harrington 
             Hayashi 
             Hobbes 
             Hotman 
             James 
             Leibniz 
             Locke 
             Luther 
             Machiavelli 
             Malebranche 
             Milton 
             Montaigne 
             More 
             Müntzer 
             Pufendorf 
             Sidney 
             Spinoza 
             Suárez
             
           
         
         
          18th–19th-century
          
            
            
             Bakunin 
             Bastiat 
             Bentham 
             Bolingbroke 
             Bonald 
             Burke 
             Comte 
             Condorcet 
             Constant 
             Cortés 
             Emerson 
             Engels 
             Fichte 
             Fourier 
             Franklin 
             Godwin 
             Hamann 
             Hegel 
             Herder 
             Hume 
             Jefferson 
             Kant 
              
               political philosophy
               
             Kierkegaard 
             Le Bon 
             Le Play 
             Madison 
             Maistre 
             Marx 
             Mazzini 
             Mill 
             Montesquieu 
             Nietzsche 
             Novalis 
             Paine 
             Renan 
             Rousseau 
             Royce 
             Sade 
             Schiller 
             Smith 
             Spencer 
             Spooner 
             de Staël 
             Stirner 
             Taine 
             Thoreau 
             Tocqueville 
             Vico 
             Vivekananda 
             Voltaire
             
           
         
         
          20th–21st-century
          
            
            
             Adorno 
             Ambedkar 
             Arendt 
             Aurobindo 
             Aron 
             Badiou 
             Baudrillard 
             Bauman 
             Benoist 
             Berlin 
             Bernstein 
             Butler 
             Camus 
             Chomsky 
             de Beauvoir 
             Debord 
             Deleuze 
             Dewey 
             Dmowski 
             Du Bois 
             Durkheim 
             Dworkin 
             Evola 
             Foucault 
             Fromm 
             Gandhi 
             Gehlen 
             Gentile 
             Gramsci 
             Guénon 
             Habermas 
             Hayek 
             Heidegger 
             Irigaray 
             Kautsky 
             Kirk 
             Kropotkin 
             Laclau 
             Lenin 
             Luxemburg 
             MacIntyre 
             Mansfield 
             Mao 
             Marcuse 
             Maritain 
             Maurras 
             Michels 
             Mises 
             Mouffe 
             Negri 
             Niebuhr 
             Nozick 
             Nursî 
             Oakeshott 
             Ortega 
             Pareto 
             Polanyi 
             Popper 
             Qutb 
             Radhakrishnan 
             Rand 
             Rawls 
             Röpke 
             Rothbard 
             Russell 
             Santayana 
             Sarkar 
             Sartre 
             Schmitt 
             Scruton 
             Searle 
             Shariati 
             Simmel 
             Skinner 
             Sombart 
             Sorel 
             Spann 
             Strauss 
             Sun 
             Taylor 
             Tucker 
             Voegelin 
             Walzer 
             Weber 
             Weil 
             Žižek
             
           
         
         
          Social theories
          
            
            
             Anarchism 
             Authoritarianism 
             Collectivism 
             Communism 
             Communitarianism 
             Conflict theories 
             Confucianism 
             Consensus theory 
             Conservatism 
             Contractualism 
             Cosmopolitanism 
             Culturalism 
             Elitism 
             Fascism 
             Feminist political theory 
             Gandhism 
             Hindu nationalism (Hindutva) 
             Individualism 
             Islam 
              
               Islamism
               
             Legalism 
             Liberalism 
             Libertarianism 
             Mohism 
             National liberalism 
             Republicanism 
             Social constructionism 
             Social constructivism 
             Social Darwinism 
             Social determinism 
             Socialism 
             Utilitarianism
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Critique of work 
             Jurisprudence 
             Philosophy and economics 
             Philosophy of education 
             Philosophy of history 
             Philosophy of love 
             Philosophy of social science 
             Political ethics 
             Social epistemology 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Types of societies
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Pre-industrial 
              
               Hunter-gatherer 
               Pastoral 
               Horticultural 
               Agricultural/Agrarian 
               Feudal
               
             Industrial 
             Post-industrial
             
           
         
        
       
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Society&amp;oldid=1070068131"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Society
       Humans
       Types of organization
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from January 2020
       Webarchive template other archives
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia pending changes protected pages
       Articles lacking in-text citations from May 2019
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Use dmy dates from November 2020
       Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikinews
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       العربية
       Aragonés
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Arpetan
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       Avañe'ẽ
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       ChiShona
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Davvisámegiella
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Эрзянь
       Español
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       ГӀалгӀай
       ગુજરાતી
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       한국어
       Hawaiʻi
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Igbo
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       IsiXhosa
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Къарачай-малкъар
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Ladin
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Limburgs
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Livvinkarjala
       La .lojban.
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       მარგალური
       ဘာသာ မန်
       Bahasa Melayu
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Mirandés
       Монгол
       Na Vosa Vakaviti
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       日本語
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Patois
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Piemontèis
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taclḥit
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Тыва дыл
       Українська
       اردو
       Vahcuengh
       Vèneto
       Vepsän kel’
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       文言
       Winaray
       吴语
       Xitsonga
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 5 February 2022, at 14:09&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
