
 
  
   
  Semantics - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Semantics 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Study of meaning in language
       
      
      
       For the branch of computer science, see Semantics (computer science). For other uses, see Semantics (disambiguation).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that this article be split into multiple articles. (Discuss) (September 2020)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Semantics
        
        
          
          
           
            Linguistic
            Logical
           
          
        
        
          
          
          
           
            
              Subfields
            
            
              
               
               
                Computational 
                Lexical (lexis, lexicology) 
                Statistical 
                Structural
                
               
            
            
              Topics
            
            
              
              
               Analysis 
               Compositionality 
               Context (language use) 
               
                
                 
                  Prototype theory
                  Force dynamics
                 
                 
               Unsolved linguistics problems 
               Theory of descriptions
               
            
           
           
        
        
          Computing
        
        
          
          
          
           
            
              Types
            
            
              
               
               
                Action 
                Algebraic 
                Axiomatic 
                Categorical 
                Concurrency 
                Denotational 
                Game 
                Operational 
                Predicate transformational
                
               
            
            
              Theory
            
            
              
              
               Abstract interpretation 
               Abstract semantic graph 
               Semantic matching
               
            
            
              Analysis
            
            
              
               
               
                Latent 
                Machine-learning
                
               
            
            
              Applications
            
            
              
              
               Semantic file system 
               
                
                 
                  Semantic Web
                  Semantic wiki
                 
                
               
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           Language 
           Linguistics
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Semantics (from Ancient Greek: σημαντικός sēmantikós, "significant") is the study of reference, meaning, or truth. The term can be used to refer to subfields of several distinct disciplines, including philosophy, linguistics and computer science.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Linguistics 
          
          1.1 Disciplines and paradigms in linguistic semantics 
            
            1.1.1 Formal semantics 
            1.1.2 Conceptual semantics 
            1.1.3 Cognitive semantics 
            1.1.4 Lexical semantics 
            1.1.5 Cross-cultural semantics 
            1.1.6 Computational semantics 
             
           
        2 Philosophy 
        3 Computer science 
          
          3.1 Programming languages 
          3.2 Semantic models 
           
        4 Psychology 
          
          4.1 Semantic memory 
          4.2 Ideasthesia 
          4.3 Psychosemantics 
          4.4 Prototype theory 
           
        5 See also 
        6 Notes 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Linguistics 
      In linguistics, semantics is the subfield that studies meaning. Semantics can address meaning at the levels of words, phrases, sentences, or larger units of discourse. Two of the fundamental issues in the field of semantics are that of compositional semantics (which pertains on how smaller parts, like words, combine and interact to form the meaning of larger expressions such as sentences) and lexical semantics (the nature of the meaning of words). Other prominent issues are those of context and its role on interpretation, opaque contexts, ambiguity, vagueness, entailment and presuppositions. 
      Several disciplines and approaches have contributed to the often contentious field of semantics. One of the crucial questions which unites different approaches to linguistic semantics is that of the relationship between form and meaning, and some major contributions to the study of semantics have derived from studies in the 1980–1990s in related subjects of the syntax–semantics interface and pragmatics. 
      The semantic level of language interacts with other modules or levels (like syntax) in which language is traditionally divided. In linguistics, it is typical to talk in terms of "interfaces" regarding such interactions between modules or levels. For semantics, the most crucial interfaces are considered those with syntax (the syntax–semantics interface), pragmatics and phonology (regarding prosody and intonation).  
      Disciplines and paradigms in linguistic semantics 
      Formal semantics 
      
      
       Main article: Formal semantics (linguistics)
       
      Formal semantics seeks to identify domain-specific mental operations which speakers perform when they compute a sentence's meaning on the basis of its syntactic structure. Theories of formal semantics are typically floated on top of theories of syntax such as generative syntax or combinatory categorial grammar and provide a model theory based on mathematical tools such as typed lambda calculi. The field's central ideas are rooted in early twentieth century philosophical logic, as well as later ideas about linguistic syntax. It emerged as its own subfield in the 1970s after the pioneering work of Richard Montague and Barbara Partee and continues to be an active area of research.  
      Conceptual semantics 
      
      
       Main article: Conceptual semantics
       
      This theory is an effort to explain properties of argument structure. The assumption behind this theory is that syntactic properties of phrases reflect the meanings of the words that head them. With this theory, linguists can better deal with the fact that subtle differences in word meaning correlate with other differences in the syntactic structure that the word appears in. The way this is gone about is by looking at the internal structure of words. These small parts that make up the internal structure of words are termed semantic primitives.  
      Cognitive semantics 
      
      
       Main article: Cognitive semantics
       
      Cognitive semantics approaches meaning from the perspective of cognitive linguistics. In this framework, language is explained via general human cognitive abilities rather than a domain-specific language module. The techniques native to cognitive semantics are typically used in lexical studies such as those put forth by Leonard Talmy, George Lakoff, Dirk Geeraerts, and Bruce Wayne Hawkins. Some cognitive semantic frameworks, such as that developed by Talmy, take into account syntactic structures as well.  
      Lexical semantics 
      
      
       Main article: Lexical semantics
       
      A linguistic theory that investigates word meaning. This theory understands that the meaning of a word is fully reflected by its context. Here, the meaning of a word is constituted by its contextual relations. Therefore, a distinction between degrees of participation as well as modes of participation are made. In order to accomplish this distinction, any part of a sentence that bears a meaning and combines with the meanings of other constituents is labeled as a semantic constituent. Semantic constituents that cannot be broken down into more elementary constituents are labeled minimal semantic constituents.  
      Cross-cultural semantics 
      Various fields or disciplines have long been contributing to cross-cultural semantics. Are words like love, truth, and hate universals? Is even the word sense – so central to semantics – a universal, or a concept entrenched in a long-standing but culture-specific tradition? These are the kind of crucial questions that are discussed in cross-cultural semantics. Translation theory, ethnolinguistics, linguistic anthropology and cultural linguistics specialize in the field of comparing, contrasting, and translating words, terms and meanings from one language to another (see Herder, W. von Humboldt, Boas, Sapir, and Whorf). But philosophy, sociology, and anthropology have long established traditions in contrasting the different nuances of the terms and concepts we use. And online encyclopaedias such as the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, and more and more Wikipedia itself have greatly facilitated the possibilities of comparing the background and usages of key cultural terms. In recent years the question of whether key terms are translatable or untranslatable has increasingly come to the fore of global discussions, especially since the publication of Barbara Cassin's Dictionary of Untranslatables: A Philosophical Lexicon, in 2014.  
      Computational semantics 
      
      
       Main article: Computational semantics
       
      Computational semantics is focused on the processing of linguistic meaning. In order to do this, concrete algorithms and architectures are described. Within this framework the algorithms and architectures are also analyzed in terms of decidability, time/space complexity, data structures that they require and communication protocols.  
      Philosophy 
      
      
       Main articles: Theory of reference and Meaning (philosophy of language)
       
      Many of the formal approaches to semantics in mathematical logic and computer science originated in early twentieth century philosophy of language and philosophical logic. Initially, the most influential semantic theory stemmed from Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell. Frege and Russell are seen as the originators of a tradition in analytic philosophy to explain meaning compositionally via syntax and mathematical functionality. Ludwig Wittgenstein, a former student of Russell, is also seen as one of the seminal figures in the analytic tradition. All three of these early philosophers of language were concerned with how sentences expressed information in the form of propositions. They also dealt with the truth values or truth conditions a given sentence has in virtue of the proposition it expresses. 
      In present day philosophy, the term "semantics" is often used to refer to linguistic formal semantics, which bridges both linguistics and philosophy. There is also an active tradition of metasemantics, which studies the foundations of natural language semantics.  
      Computer science 
      
      
       Main article: Semantics (computer science)
       
      In computer science, the term semantics refers to the meaning of language constructs, as opposed to their form (syntax). According to Euzenat, semantics "provides the rules for interpreting the syntax which do not provide the meaning directly but constrains the possible interpretations of what is declared".  
      Programming languages 
      The semantics of programming languages and other languages is an important issue and area of study in computer science. Like the syntax of a language, its semantics can be defined exactly. 
      For instance, the following statements use different syntaxes, but cause the same instructions to be executed, namely, perform an arithmetical addition of 'y' to 'x' and store the result in a variable called 'x':  
       
       
         
         Statement  
         Programming languages 
         
         
         x += y  
         C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, etc. 
         
         
         $x += $y  
         Perl, PHP 
         
         
         x&nbsp;:= x + y  
         Ada, ALGOL, ALGOL 68, BCPL, Dylan, Eiffel, J, Modula-2, Oberon, OCaml, Object Pascal (Delphi), Pascal, SETL, Simula, Smalltalk, Standard ML, VHDL, etc. 
         
         
         MOV EAX, ADD ,EAX  
         Assembly languages: Intel 8086 
         
         
         ldr r2, ldr r3, add r3, r3, r2str r3,   
         Assembly languages: ARM 
         
         
         LET X = X + Y  
         BASIC: early 
         
         
         x = x + y  
         BASIC: most dialects; Fortran, MATLAB, Lua 
         
         
         Set x = x + y  
         Caché ObjectScript 
         
         
         ADD Y TO X.  
         ABAP 
         
         
         ADD Y TO X GIVING X  
         COBOL 
         
         
         set /a x=%x%+%y%  
         Batch 
         
         
         (incf x y)  
         Common Lisp 
         
         
         /x y x add def  
         PostScript 
         
         
         y @ x +!   
         Forth 
        
       
       
      Various ways have been developed to describe the semantics of programming languages formally, building on mathematical logic:  
      
       Operational semantics: The meaning of a construct is specified by the computation it induces when it is executed on a machine. In particular, it is of interest how the effect of a computation is produced. 
       Denotational semantics: Meanings are modelled by mathematical objects that represent the effect of executing the constructs. Thus only the effect is of interest, not how it is obtained. 
       Axiomatic semantics: Specific properties of the effect of executing the constructs are expressed as assertions. Thus there may be aspects of the executions that are ignored.
       
      Semantic models 
      
      
       See also: Ontology (information science)
       
      The Semantic Web refers to the extension of the World Wide Web via embedding added semantic metadata, using semantic data modeling techniques such as Resource Description Framework (RDF) and Web Ontology Language (OWL). On the Semantic Web, terms such as semantic network and semantic data model are used to describe particular types of data model characterized by the use of directed graphs in which the vertices denote concepts or entities in the world and their properties, and the arcs denote relationships between them. These can formally be described as description logic concepts and roles, which correspond to OWL classes and properties.  
      Psychology 
      
      
       Main article: Semantics (psychology)
       
      Semantic memory 
      In psychology, semantic memory is memory for meaning&nbsp;– in other words, the aspect of memory that preserves only the gist, the general significance, of remembered experience&nbsp;– while episodic memory is memory for the ephemeral details&nbsp;– the individual features, or the unique particulars of experience. The term "episodic memory" was introduced by Tulving and Schacter in the context of "declarative memory", which involved simple association of factual or objective information concerning its object. Word meaning is measured by the company they keep, i.e. the relationships among words themselves in a semantic network. The memories may be transferred intergenerationally or isolated in one generation due to a cultural disruption. Different generations may have different experiences at similar points in their own time-lines. This may then create a vertically heterogeneous semantic net for certain words in an otherwise homogeneous culture. In a network created by people analyzing their understanding of the word (such as Wordnet) the links and decomposition structures of the network are few in number and kind, and include part of, kind of, and similar links. In automated ontologies the links are computed vectors without explicit meaning. Various automated technologies are being developed to compute the meaning of words: latent semantic indexing and support vector machines, as well as natural language processing, artificial neural networks and predicate calculus techniques.  
      Ideasthesia 
      Ideasthesia is a psychological phenomenon in which activation of concepts evokes sensory experiences. For example, in synesthesia, activation of a concept of a letter (e.g., that of the letter A) evokes sensory-like experiences (e.g., of red color).  
      Psychosemantics 
      In the 1960s, psychosemantic studies became popular after Charles E. Osgood's massive cross-cultural studies using his semantic differential (SD) method that used thousands of nouns and adjective bipolar scales. A specific form of the SD, Projective Semantics method uses only most common and neutral nouns that correspond to the 7 groups (factors) of adjective-scales most consistently found in cross-cultural studies (Evaluation, Potency, Activity as found by Osgood, and Reality, Organization, Complexity, Limitation as found in other studies). In this method, seven groups of bipolar adjective scales corresponded to seven types of nouns so the method was thought to have the object-scale symmetry (OSS) between the scales and nouns for evaluation using these scales. For example, the nouns corresponding to the listed 7 factors would be: Beauty, Power, Motion, Life, Work, Chaos, Law. Beauty was expected to be assessed unequivocally as "very good" on adjectives of Evaluation-related scales, Life as "very real" on Reality-related scales, etc. However, deviations in this symmetric and very basic matrix might show underlying biases of two types: scales-related bias and objects-related bias. This OSS design meant to increase the sensitivity of the SD method to any semantic biases in responses of people within the same culture and educational background.  
      Prototype theory 
      Another set of concepts related to fuzziness in semantics is based on prototypes. The work of Eleanor Rosch in the 1970s led to a view that natural categories are not characterizable in terms of necessary and sufficient conditions, but are graded (fuzzy at their boundaries) and inconsistent as to the status of their constituent members. One may compare it with Jung's archetype, though the concept of archetype sticks to static concept. Some post-structuralists are against the fixed or static meaning of the words. Derrida, following Nietzsche, talked about slippages in fixed meanings. 
      Systems of categories are not objectively out there in the world but are rooted in people's experience. These categories evolve as learned concepts of the world&nbsp;– meaning is not an objective truth, but a subjective construct, learned from experience, and language arises out of the "grounding of our conceptual systems in shared embodiment and bodily experience". A corollary of this is that the conceptual categories (i.e. the lexicon) will not be identical for different cultures, or indeed, for every individual in the same culture. This leads to another debate (see the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis or Eskimo words for snow).  
      See also 
      
       Semantic technology
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ The word is derived from the Ancient Greek word σημαντικός (semantikos), "related to meaning, significant", from σημαίνω semaino, "to signify, to indicate", which is from σῆμα sema, "sign, mark, token". The plural is used in analogy with words similar to physics, which was in the neuter plural in Ancient Greek and meant "things relating to nature".  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ σημαντικός. Liddell, Henry George; Scott, Robert; A Greek–English Lexicon at the Perseus Project.  
         ^ a b c d e Partee, B. (1999) Semantics in R. A. Wilson and F. C. Keil (eds.) The MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences, Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press. 739–742.  
         ^ Kroeger, Paul (2019). Analyzing Meaning. Language Science Press. pp.&nbsp;4–6. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-96110-136-8.  
         ^ a b Levin, Beth; Pinker, Steven; Lexical &amp; Conceptual Semantics, Blackwell, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1991.  
         ^ a b Jackendoff, Ray; Semantic Structures, MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1990.  
         ^ 
           Goldstein, E. Bruce (2015). Cognitive psychology&nbsp;: connecting mind, research and everyday experience (4th&nbsp;ed.). New York: Cengage learning. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-285-76388-0. OCLC&nbsp;885178247.  
         ^ a b c Cruse, D.; Lexical Semantics, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1986.  
         ^ Underhill, James, W. Ethnolinguistics and Cultural Concepts: truth, love, hate &amp; war, Cambridge University Press, 2012.  
         ^ Wierzbicka, Anna. Experience, Evidence, and Sense: The hidden cultural legacy of English, Oxford University Press, 2010.  
         ^ Cassin, Barbara. Dictionary of Untranslatables: A Philosophical Lexicon, Princeton University Press, 2014.  
         ^ Sadow, Lauren, ed. In Conversation with Anna Wierzbicka – How English shapes our Anglo world on YouTube.  
         ^ Nerbonne, J.; The Handbook of Contemporary Semantic Theory (ed. Lappin, S.), Blackwell Publishing, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1996.  
         ^ "Theories of Meaning". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.  
         ^ Alexis Burgess, Brett Sherman (eds.), Metasemantics: New Essays on the Foundations of Meaning, Oxford University Press, 2014, p. 29 n. 13.  
         ^ Euzenat, Jerome. Ontology Matching. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2007, p. 36.  
         ^ 
           Nielson, Hanne Riis; Nielson, Flemming (1995). Semantics with Applications, A Formal Introduction (1st&nbsp;ed.). Chicester, England: John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;0-471-92980-8.  
         ^ 
           Sikos, Leslie F. (2017). Description Logics in Multimedia Reasoning. Cham: Springer International Publishing. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-54066-5. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-54066-5. S2CID&nbsp;3180114.  
         ^ Giannini, A. J.; Semiotic and Semantic Implications of "Authenticity", Psychological Reports, 106(2):611–612, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Trofimova, I (2014). "Observer bias: how temperament matters in semantic perception of lexical material". PLOS ONE. 9 (1): e85677. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0085677. PMC&nbsp;3903487. PMID&nbsp;24475048.  
         ^ 
           Trofimova, I (1999). "How people of different age sex and temperament estimate the world". Psychological Reports. 85/2: 533–552. doi:10.2466/pr0.85.6.533-552.  
         ^ 
           Trofimova, I (2012). "Understanding misunderstanding: a study of sex differences in meaning attribution". Psychological Research. 77/6 (6): 748–760. doi:10.1007/s00426-012-0462-8. PMID&nbsp;23179581. S2CID&nbsp;4828135.  
         ^ 
           Lakoff, George; Johnson, Mark (1999). Philosophy in the Flesh: The embodied mind and its challenge to Western thought. Chapter 1. New York, NY: Basic Books. OCLC&nbsp;93961754.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Semantics.
         
       
      
       
       
         
          
         Look up semantics in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
      
       
       
         
          
         Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Linguistics/Semantics
         
       
       
      
       Semanticsarchive.net 
       Teaching page for GCE Advanced Level semantics 
       "Semantics: an interview with Jerry Fodor" (ReVEL, vol.&nbsp;5, no.&nbsp;8 (2007))
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy of language
           
         
         
          
           
            Index of language articles
           
         
         
          Philosophers
          
            
            
             Plato (Cratylus) 
             Gorgias 
             Confucius 
             Xunzi 
             Aristotle 
             Stoics 
             Pyrrhonists 
             Scholasticism 
             Ibn Rushd 
             Ibn Khaldun 
             Thomas Hobbes 
             Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 
             Johann Herder 
             Ludwig Noiré 
             Wilhelm von Humboldt 
             Fritz Mauthner 
             Paul Ricœur 
             Ferdinand de Saussure 
             Gottlob Frege 
             Franz Boas 
             Paul Tillich 
             Edward Sapir 
             Leonard Bloomfield 
             Zhuangzi 
             Henri Bergson 
             Lev Vygotsky 
             Ludwig Wittgenstein 
              
               Philosophical Investigations 
               Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
               
             Bertrand Russell 
             Rudolf Carnap 
             Jacques Derrida 
              
               Of Grammatology 
               Limited Inc
               
             Benjamin Lee Whorf 
             Gustav Bergmann 
             J. L. Austin 
             Noam Chomsky 
             Hans-Georg Gadamer 
             Saul Kripke 
             A. J. Ayer 
             G. E. M. Anscombe 
             Jaakko Hintikka 
             Michael Dummett 
             Donald Davidson 
             Roger Gibson 
             Paul Grice 
             Gilbert Ryle 
             P. F. Strawson 
             Willard Van Orman Quine 
             Hilary Putnam 
             David Lewis 
             Robert Stalnaker 
             John Searle 
             Joxe Azurmendi 
             Scott Soames 
             Stephen Yablo 
             John Hawthorne 
             Stephen Neale 
             Paul Watzlawick 
             Richard Montague 
             Barbara Partee
             
           
         
         
          Theories
          
            
            
             Causal theory of reference 
             Contrast theory of meaning 
             Contrastivism 
             Conventionalism 
             Cratylism 
             Deconstruction 
             Descriptivism 
             Direct reference theory 
             Dramatism 
             Dynamic semantics 
             Expressivism 
             Inquisitive semantics 
             Linguistic determinism 
             Mediated reference theory 
             Nominalism 
             Non-cognitivism 
             Phallogocentrism 
             Relevance theory 
             Semantic externalism 
             Semantic holism 
             Situation semantics 
             Structuralism 
             Supposition theory 
             Symbiosism 
             Theological noncognitivism 
             Theory of descriptions (Definite description) 
             Unilalianism 
             Verification theory
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Ambiguity 
             Cant 
             Linguistic relativity 
             Language 
             Truth-bearer 
             Proposition 
             Use–mention distinction 
             Concept 
             Categories 
             Set 
             Class 
             Family resemblance 
             Intension 
             Logical form 
             Metalanguage 
             Mental representation 
             Modality (natural language) 
             Presupposition 
             Principle of compositionality 
             Property 
             Sign 
             Sense and reference 
             Speech act 
             Symbol 
             Sentence 
             Statement 
             more...
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Analytic philosophy 
             Philosophy of information 
             Philosophical logic 
             Linguistics 
             Pragmatics 
             Rhetoric 
             Semantics 
             Formal semantics 
             Semiotics
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Task Force 
             Discussion
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Logic
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History
             
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Computer science 
             Formal semantics (natural language) 
             Inference 
             Philosophy of logic 
             Proof 
             Semantics of logic 
             Syntax
             
           
           
            
             
              Logics
              
                
                
                 Classical 
                 Informal 
                  
                   Critical thinking 
                   Reason
                   
                 Mathematical 
                 Non-classical 
                 Philosophical
                 
               
             
             
              Theories
              
                
                
                 Argumentation 
                 Metalogic 
                 Metamathematics 
                 Set
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Foundations
          
            
            
             Abduction 
             Analytic and synthetic propositions 
             Contradiction 
              
               Paradox 
               Antinomy
               
             Deduction 
             Deductive closure 
             Definition 
             Description 
             Entailment 
              
               Linguistic
               
             Form 
             Induction 
             Logical truth 
             Name 
             Necessity and sufficiency 
             Premise 
             Probability 
             Reference 
             Statement 
             Substitution 
             Truth 
             Validity
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
           
           
            
             
              topics
              
                
                
                 Mathematical logic 
                 Boolean algebra 
                 Set theory
                 
               
             
             
              other
              
                
                
                 Logicians 
                 Rules of inference 
                 Paradoxes 
                 Fallacies 
                 Logic symbols
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Philosophy portal 
             Category 
             WikiProject&nbsp;(talk) 
             changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Formal semantics (natural language)
           
         
         
          Central concepts
          
            
            
             Compositionality 
             Denotation 
             Entailment 
             Extension 
             Generalized quantifier 
             Intension 
             Logical form 
             Presupposition 
             Proposition 
             Reference 
             Scope 
             Speech act 
             Syntax–semantics interface 
             Truth conditions
             
           
         
         
          Topics
          
           
           
            
             
              Areas
              
                
                
                 Anaphora 
                 Ambiguity 
                 Binding 
                 Conditionals 
                 Definiteness 
                 Disjunction 
                 Evidentiality 
                 Focus 
                 Indexicality 
                 Lexical semantics 
                 Modality 
                 Negation 
                 Propositional attitudes 
                 Tense–aspect–mood 
                 Quantification 
                 Vagueness
                 
               
             
             
              Phenomena
              
                
                
                 Antecedent-contained deletion 
                 Cataphora 
                 Coercion 
                 Conservativity 
                 Counterfactuals 
                 Cumulativity 
                 De dicto and de re 
                 De se 
                 Deontic modality 
                 Discourse relations 
                 Donkey anaphora 
                 Epistemic modality 
                 Faultless disagreement 
                 Free choice inferences 
                 Givenness 
                 Crossover effects 
                 Hurford disjunction 
                 Inalienable possession 
                 Intersective modification 
                 Logophoricity 
                 Mirativity 
                 Modal subordination 
                 Negative polarity items 
                 Opaque contexts 
                 Performatives 
                 Privative adjectives 
                 Quantificational variability effect 
                 Responsive predicate 
                 Rising declaratives 
                 Scalar implicature 
                 Sloppy identity 
                 Subsective modification 
                 Subtrigging 
                 Telicity 
                 Temperature paradox 
                 Veridicality
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Formalism
          
           
           
            
             
              Formal systems
              
                
                
                 Alternative semantics 
                 Categorial grammar 
                 Combinatory categorial grammar 
                 Discourse representation theory 
                 Dynamic semantics 
                 Frame semantics 
                 Generative grammar 
                 Glue semantics 
                 Inquisitive semantics 
                 Intensional logic 
                 Lambda calculus 
                 Mereology 
                 Montague grammar 
                 Segmented discourse representation theory 
                 Situation semantics 
                 Supervaluationism 
                 Type theory 
                 TTR
                 
               
             
             
              Concepts
              
                
                
                 Autonomy of syntax 
                 Context set 
                 Continuation 
                 Conversational scoreboard 
                 Existential closure 
                 Function application 
                 Meaning postulate 
                 Monads 
                 Possible world 
                 Quantifier raising 
                 Quantization 
                 Question under discussion 
                 Squiggle operator 
                 Strict conditional 
                 Type shifter 
                 Universal grinder
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Cognitive semantics 
             Computational semantics 
             Distributional semantics 
             Formal grammar 
             Inferentialism 
             Linguistics wars 
             Philosophy of language 
             Pragmatics 
              
               Context 
               Deixis
               
             Semantics of logic
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Semantics&amp;oldid=1062057633"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Semantics
       Semantics (linguistics)
       Concepts in logic
       Grammar
       Linguistics terminology
       Meaning (philosophy of language)
       Social philosophy
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be split from September 2020
       All articles to be split
       Commons category link is defined as the pagename
       AC with 0 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Чӑвашла
       Deutsch
       Español
       Italiano
       עברית
       日本語
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       吴语
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 26 December 2021, at 00:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
