
 
  
   
  Information and computer science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information and computer science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Computer and information science)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Information and computer science"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (November 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article or section possibly contains synthesis of material which does not verifiably mention or relate to the main topic. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. (June 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A lab in which computer and information science (CIS) is studied.
        
       
       
      Information and computer science (ICS) or computer and information science (CIS) (plural forms, i.e., sciences, may also be used) is a field that emphasizes both computing and informatics, upholding the strong association between the fields of information sciences and computer sciences and treating computers as a tool rather than a field. 
      Information science is one with a long history, unlike the relatively very young field of computer science, and is primarily concerned with gathering, storing, disseminating, sharing and protecting any and all forms of information. It is a broad field, covering a myriad of different areas but is often referenced alongside computer science because of the incredibly useful nature of computers and computer programs in helping those studying and doing research in the field – particularly in helping to analyse data and in spotting patterns too broad for a human to intuitively perceive. While information science is sometimes confused with information theory, the two have vastly different subject matter. Information theory focuses on one particular mathematical concept of information while information science is focused on all aspects of the processes and techniques of information. 
      Computer science, in contrast, is less focused on information and its different states, but more, in a very broad sense, on the use of computers – both in theory and practice – to design and implement algorithms in order to aid the processing of information during the different states described above. It has strong foundations in the field of mathematics, as the very first recognised practitioners of the field were renowned mathematicians such as Alan Turing. 
      Information science and computing began to converge in the 1950s and 1960s, as information scientists started to realize the many ways computers would improve information storage and retrieval.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Terminology 
        2 Education 
        3 Areas of information and computer science 
          
          3.1 Programming theory 
          3.2 Information and information systems 
          3.3 Computer systems and organisations 
          3.4 Machines, languages, and computation 
           
        4 Developments 
        5 Employment 
        6 References 
        
       
      Terminology 
      Due to the distinction between computers and computing, some of the research groups refer to computing or datalogy. The French refer to computer science as the term informatique. The term information and communications technology (ICT), refers to how humans communicate with using machines and computers, making a distinction from information and computer science, which is how computers use and gain information. 
      Informatics is also distinct from computer science, which encompasses the study of logic and low-level computing issues.  
      Education 
      Universities may confer degrees of ICS and CIS, not to be confused with a more specific Bachelor of Computer Science or respective graduate computer science degrees. 
      The QS World University Rankings is one of the most widely recognised and distinguished university comparisons. They ranked the top 10 universities for computer science and information systems in 2015. 
      They are:  
      
       Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) 
       Stanford University 
       University of Oxford 
       Carnegie Mellon University 
       Harvard University 
       University of California, Berkeley (UCB) 
       University of Cambridge 
       The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 
       Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) 
       Princeton University
       
      A Computer Information Science degree gives students both network and computing knowledge which is needed to design, develop, and assist information systems which helps to solve business problems and to support business problems and to support business operations and decision making at a managerial level also.  
      Areas of information and computer science 
      Due to the nature of this field, many topics are also shared with computer science and information systems. 
      The discipline of Information and Computer Science spans a vast range of areas from basic computer science theory (algorithms and computational logic) to in depth analysis of data manipulation and use within technology.  
      Programming theory 
      The process of taking a given algorithm and encoding it into a language that can be understood and executed by a computer. There are many different types of programming languages and various different types of computers, however, they all have the same goal: to turn algorithms into machine code. 
      Popular programming languages used within the academic study of CIS include, but are not limited to: Java, Python, C#, C++, Perl, Ruby, Pascal, Swift, Visual Basic.  
      Information and information systems 
      The academic study of software and hardware systems that process large quantities and data, support large scale data management and how data can be used. This is where the field is unique from the standard study of computer science. The area of information systems focuses on the networks of hardware and software that are required to process, manipulate and distribute such data.  
      Computer systems and organisations 
      The process of analysing computer architecture and various logic circuits. This involves looking at low level computer processes at bit level computation. This is an in-depth look into the hardware processing of a computational system, involving looking at the basic structure of a computer and designing such systems. This can also involve evaluating complex circuit diagrams, and being able to construct these to solve a main problem. 
      The main purpose behind this area of study is to achieve an understanding of how computers function on a basic level, often through tracing machine operations.  
      Machines, languages, and computation 
      This is the study into fundamental computer algorithms, which are the basis to computer programs. Without algorithms, no computer programs would exist. This also involves the process of looking into various mathematical functions behind computational algorithms, basic theory and functional (low level) programming. 
      In an academic setting, this area would introduce the fundamental mathematical theorems and functions behind theoretical computer science which are the building blocks for other areas in the field. Complex topics such as; proofs, algebraic functions and sets will be introduced during studies of CIS.  
      Developments 
      Information and computer science is a field that is rapidly developing with job prospects for students being extremely promising with 75.7% of graduates gaining employment. Also the IT industry employs one in twenty of the workforce with it predicted to increase nearly five times faster than the average of the UK and between 2012 and 2017 more than half a million people will be needed within the industry and the fact that nine out of ten tech firms are suffering from candidate shortages which is having a negative impact on their business as it delays the creation and development of new products, and it's predicted in the US that in the next decade there will be more than one million jobs in the technology sector than computer science graduates to fill them. Because of this programming is now being taught at an earlier age with an aim to interest students from a young age into computer and information science hopefully leading more children to study this at a higher level. For example, children in England will now be exposed to computer programming at the age of 5 due to an updated national curriculum.  
      Employment 
      Due to the wide variety of jobs that now involve computer and information science related tasks, it is difficult to provide a comprehensive list of possible jobs in this area, but some of the key areas are artificial intelligence, software engineering and computer networking and communication. Work in this area also tends to require sufficient understanding of mathematics and science. Moreover, jobs that having a CIS degree can lead to, include: systems analyst, network administrator, system architect, information systems developer, web programmer, or software developer. 
      The earning potential for CIS graduates is quite promising. A 2013 survey from the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) found that the average starting salary for graduates who earned a degree in a computer related field was $59,977, up 4.3% from the prior year. This is higher than other popular degrees such as business ($54,234), education ($40,480) and math and sciences ($42,724). Furthermore, Payscale ranked 129 college degrees based on their graduates earning potential with engineering, math, science, and technology fields dominating the ranking. With eight computer related degrees appearing among the top 30. With the lowest starting salary for these jobs being $49,900. A Rasmussen College article describes various jobs CIS graduates may obtain with software applications developers at the top making a median income of $98,260. 
      According to the National Careers Service an Information Scientist can expect to earn £24,000+ per year as a starting salary.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ http://www.anderson.ucla.edu/faculty/jason.frand/teacher/technologies/palace/datamining.htm  
         ^ "QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015 – Computer Science &amp; Information Systems".  
         ^ 
           "What is Computer Science?". Archived from the original on 2017-06-12.  
         ^ 
           "What Is Programming? – Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures". interactivepython.org. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "information system". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "What is Computer Architecture? – Definition from Techopedia". Techopedia.com. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "What is a computer algorithm?". HowStuffWorks. 5 September 2001. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "What can I do With My Degree?". Prospects. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "Computer science graduates: why do they top unemployment tables?". The Guardian. 16 September 2013. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "A Push to Boost Computer Science Learning Even at an Early Age". NPR.org. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "Teaching our children to code: a quiet revolution". The Telegraph. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "What is Computer Science". Archived from the original on 2017-06-12. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "Starting Salaries for New College Graduates" (PDF). Retrieved 2015-11-26.  
         ^ 
           "Computer science major ranks No. 8 for salary potential". Network World. Retrieved 2015-11-19.  
         ^ 
           "8 Entry-Level Computer Science Jobs that are Actually Hiring!". www.rasmussen.edu. Retrieved 2017-02-28.  
         ^ 
           "Job Titles – Information Scientist". Retrieved 2015-12-10.  
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_and_computer_science&amp;oldid=1066983987"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Computer science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from January 2020
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Articles needing additional references from November 2015
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles that may contain original research from June 2016
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from January 2021
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       فارسی
       Македонски
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 03:45&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
