
 
  
   
  Outline of information technology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Outline of information technology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Overview of and topical guide to information technology
       
      The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to information technology: 
      Information technology (IT) – microelectronics based combination of computing and telecommunications technology to treat information, including in the acquisition, processing, storage and dissemination of vocal, pictorial, textual and numerical information. It is defined by the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA) as "the study, design, development, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems, particularly toward software applications and computer hardware."  
      
      
       
        
        
         Contents
         
         
         1 Different names 
         2 History of information technology 
         3 Vendor-specific certifications 
         4 Third-party and vendor-neutral certifications 
         5 Information technology and society 
         6 General certification 
           
           6.1 Software Testing 
            
         7 Underlying technology 
         8 Further reading 
         9 References 
         10 External links 
         
        
       
      Different names 
      There are different names for this at different periods or through fields. Some of these names are:  
      
       ICT – Information and communication technologies 
       IT – Information technology 
       DCT – Data Communication &amp; technology 
       CDT – Creative digital technology 
       DT – Design &amp; technology 
       Communication technology 
       BSIT or B.Sc IT – Bachelor of Science in Information Technology 
       M.Sc. IT, MSc IT or MSIT – Master of Science in Information Technology 
       BCA – Bachelor of Computer Applications 
       MCA – Master of Computer Applications
       
      History of information technology 
      
       History of computing 
        
         History of computing, by subject 
          
           History of computing hardware 
           History of computing hardware (1960s–present) 
           History of computer hardware in Soviet Bloc countries 
           History of artificial intelligence 
           History of computer science 
           History of operating systems 
           History of programming languages 
           History of software engineering 
           History of the graphical user interface 
           History of the Internet 
           History of personal computers 
           History of laptops 
           History of video games 
           History of the World Wide Web
           
         Timeline of computing 
          
           Timeline of computing hardware 2400 BC–1949 
           Timeline of computing 1950–1979 
           Timeline of computing 1980–1989 
           Timeline of computing 1990–1999 
           Timeline of computing 2000–2009
          
        
       
      Vendor-specific certifications 
      
       Amazon Web Services has 5 certifications  
       Apple Inc. – sponsors the Apple certification program 
       Avaya Professional Credential Program 
       Cisco Systems – sponsors the Cisco Career Certifications program 
       Citrix Systems – sponsors the Citrix Certified Administrator program 
       Hewlett-Packard – sponsors the HP-CP certifications related to HP Technologies 
       Dell – sponsors the Dell Certified Systems Expert program with Associate and Master levels 
       Huawei – sponsors certifications 
       IBM – sponsors certifications 
       Juniper Networks – sponsors the Juniper Networks Technical Certification Program 
       LANDesk – sponsors the Certified LANDesk Administrator and Certified LANDesk Engineer program 
       Microsoft Corporation – sponsors the Microsoft Certified Professional program 
       MySQL (as part of Oracle Corporation now) – sponsors a certification program 
       NetApp – sponsors the NetApp Certification program 
       Nortel – sponsors the Nortel Certifications program 
       Novell – sponsors a certification program 
       Object Management Group – sponsors the Certified Professional program for the Unified Modeling Language 
       Oracle Corporation – sponsors the Oracle Certification Program 
       Red Hat – sponsors the Red Hat Certification Program 
       SAP – sponsors individual training and certifications 
       SolarWinds – sponsors the SolarWinds Certified Professional Program for network management  
       Sun Microsystems – sponsors the Sun Certified Professional program 
       Sybase – sponsors the Certified Sybase Professional program 
       Ubuntu – provides Ubuntu Certified Professional program 
       VMware – sponsors certification programs (VCP &amp; VCDX) 
       Zend Technologies – sponsors the Zend Certified Engineer program
       
      Third-party and vendor-neutral certifications 
      Third-party commercial organizations and vendor neutral interest groups that sponsor certifications include:  
      
       XML Certification Program - XML Master 
       Certiport – sponsors the Microsoft Office Specialist and IC3 certification (Internet and Computing Core). 
       CompTIA (Computing Technology Industry Association) – offers 12 professional IT Certifications, validating foundation-level IT knowledge and skills. 
       European Computer Driving License-Foundation – sponsors the European Computer Driving License (also called International Computer Driving License) (ICDL) 
       International Information and Communication Technology Council Certification Program 
       (ISC)² – sponsors the CISSP, SSCP and other security certifications 
       Linux Professional Institute 
       Majinate sponsors the Accredited Symbian Developer scheme for Symbian OS 
       NACSE (National Association of Communication Systems Engineers) sponsors 36 Vendor Neutral, knowledge specific, Certifications covering the 5 major IT Disciplines which are: Data Networking, Telecomm, Web Design &amp; Development, Programming &amp; Business Skills for IT Professionals. 
       The Open Group – sponsors TOGAF certification and the IT Architect Certification (ITAC) and IT Specialist Certification (ITSC) skills and experience based IT certifications. 
       Planet3 Wireless – sponsors the Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) certification 
       SAGE (organization) – sponsors the cSAGE program 
       SANS Institute – operates the Global Information Assurance Certification program
       
      Information technology and society 
      
       
       
      General certification 
      General certification of software practitioners has struggled. The ACM had a professional certification program in the early 1980s, which was discontinued due to lack of interest. Today, the IEEE is certifying software professionals, but only about 500 people have passed the exam by March 2005.  
      
       The IEEE Computer Society – sponsors the Certified Software Development Professional as well as membership designations, "Senior" and "Fellow" which reflect experience and peer review qualification. 
       The IET – sponsors the Chartered Engineer and Incorporated Engineer, which can be ratified into the European Engineer 
       The BCS – sponsors the Chartered IT Professional (CITP) programme. 
       The Institute for Certification of Computing Professionals sponsors the Certified Computing Professional (CCP) and Associate Computing Professional (ACP) certifications 
       The BDPA IT Institute – sponsors the BDPA IT Associate (BITA), the BDPA IT Professional (BITP), and the BDPA IT Master (BITM) certifications 
       The Canadian Information Processing Society – sponsors the Information Systems Professional certification in Canada. 
       The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants – sponsors the Certified Information Technology Professional program. 
       APICS – establishes operations management standards and sponsors certification for Logistics
       
      Software Testing 
      
       British Computer Society 
       National Software Testing Laboratories 
       American Society for Quality#Certifications 
       ISTQB 
       CSTE
       
      Underlying technology 
      
       MOSFET (MOS transistor) 
        
         Semiconductor device fabrication 
         PMOS (p-type MOS) 
         NMOS (n-type MOS) 
         CMOS (complementary MOS) 
         Floating-gate MOSFET (FGMOS) 
         Silicon-gate transistor (SGT) 
         Power MOSFET 
         Multi-gate field-effect transistor (MuGFET) 
          
           FinFET (fin field-effect transistor)
           
         Thin-film transistor (TFT)
         
       Integrated circuit (IC) 
        
         Hybrid integrated circuit (HIC) 
         Monolithic integrated circuit (IC) chip 
          
           Planar process 
           MOS integrated circuit (MOS IC) 
           Silicon-gate technology (SGT) MOS IC
           
         Three-dimensional integrated circuit (3D IC)
         
       Computer memory 
        
         Semiconductor memory 
         Random-access memory (RAM) 
          
           Static random-access memory (SRAM) 
           Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) 
           Synchronous DRAM (SDRAM)
           
         Nonvolatile memory (NVM) 
          
           Read-only memory (ROM) 
           Programmable ROM (PROM) 
           Floating-gate memory 
           EPROM (erasable PROM) 
           EEPROM (electrically erasable PROM) 
           Flash memory
           
         Magnetic-core memory
         
       Microprocessor 
        
         Central processing unit (CPU) 
         Graphics processing unit (GPU) 
         Digital signal processor (DSP) 
         Image signal processor (ISP)
        
       
      Further reading 
      
       Surveillance, Transparency and Democracy: Public Administration in the Information Age. p.&nbsp;35-57. University of Alabama Press, Tuscaloosa, AL. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8173-1877-2
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ 
          "Information &amp; Communication Technology" (PDF). www.un.org.  
        ^ 
          "Information technology". Archived from the original on 2013-08-26. Retrieved 2013-08-28.  
        ^ 
          "Data Communication Technology".  
        ^ 
          "Creative Digital Technologies".  
        ^ 
          "Design &amp; technology".  
        ^ 
          "Communication Technology".  
        ^ 
          "Bachelor of Science in Information Technology".  
        ^ 
          "Master of Science in Information Technology".  
        ^ 
          "Bachelor of Computer Application".  
        ^ 
          "Master of Computer Applications" (PDF).  
        ^ 
          "AWS Certification". Amazon Web Services, Inc. Retrieved 22 May 2016.  
        ^   
        ^ 
          "OCUP Certification - Home Page". Retrieved 22 May 2016.  
        ^ By Shamus McGuillicuddy, SearchNetworking.com."SolarWinds offers network management training and certification Archived 2009-08-28 at the Wayback Machine." June 24, 2009. Retrieved August 20, 2009.  
        ^ 
          Haque, Akhlaque (2015). Surveillance, Transparency and Democracy: Public Administration in the Information Age. Tuscaloosa, AL: University of Alabama Press. pp.&nbsp;35–57. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8173-1877-2.  
       
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Information technologyat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
       Information Technology Dictionary 
       Information Technology Association of America 
       XML Certification Program - XML Master
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Wikipedia Outlines
           
         
         
          
           
            General reference 
            
             Culture and the arts 
             Geography and places 
             Health and fitness 
             History and events 
             Mathematics and logic 
             Natural and physical sciences 
             People and self 
             Philosophy and thinking 
             Religion and belief systems 
             Society and social sciences 
             Technology and applied sciences
            
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Outline_of_information_technology&amp;oldid=1062613823"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Outlines of sciences
       Wikipedia outlines
       Information technology
       Technology-related lists
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2005
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Bahasa Indonesia
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 29 December 2021, at 14:11&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
