
 
  
   
  Inference - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Inference 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Act or process of deriving logical conclusions from premises known or assumed to be true
       
      
      
       For the 1992 album by pianist Marilyn Crispell and saxophonist Tim Berne, see Inference (album). For the process in statistics and machine learning, see Statistical inference.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Inferences are steps in reasoning, moving from premises to logical consequences; etymologically, the word infer means to "carry forward". Inference is theoretically traditionally divided into deduction and induction, a distinction that in Europe dates at least to Aristotle (300s BCE). Deduction is inference deriving logical conclusions from premises known or assumed to be true, with the laws of valid inference being studied in logic. Induction is inference from particular premises to a universal conclusion. A third type of inference is sometimes distinguished, notably by Charles Sanders Peirce, contradistinguishing abduction from induction. 
      Various fields study how inference is done in practice. Human inference (i.e. how humans draw conclusions) is traditionally studied within the fields of logic, argumentation studies, and cognitive psychology; artificial intelligence researchers develop automated inference systems to emulate human inference. Statistical inference uses mathematics to draw conclusions in the presence of uncertainty. This generalizes deterministic reasoning, with the absence of uncertainty as a special case. Statistical inference uses quantitative or qualitative (categorical) data which may be subject to random variations.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Definition 
        2 Examples 
          
          2.1 Example for definition #1 
          2.2 Example for definition #2 
           
        3 Incorrect inference 
        4 Applications 
          
          4.1 Inference engines 
            
            4.1.1 Prolog engine 
             
          4.2 Semantic web 
          4.3 Bayesian statistics and probability logic 
          4.4 Fuzzy logic 
          4.5 Non-monotonic logic 
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Definition 
      The process by which a conclusion is inferred from multiple observations is called inductive reasoning. The conclusion may be correct or incorrect, or correct to within a certain degree of accuracy, or correct in certain situations. Conclusions inferred from multiple observations may be tested by additional observations. 
      This definition is disputable (due to its lack of clarity. Ref: Oxford English dictionary: "induction ... 3. Logic the inference of a general law from particular instances.") The definition given thus applies only when the "conclusion" is general. 
      Two possible definitions of "inference" are:  
      
       A conclusion reached on the basis of evidence and reasoning. 
       The process of reaching such a conclusion.
       
      Examples 
      Example for definition #1 
      Ancient Greek philosophers defined a number of syllogisms, correct three part inferences, that can be used as building blocks for more complex reasoning. We begin with a famous example:  
      
       All humans are mortal. 
       All Greeks are humans. 
       All Greeks are mortal.
       
      The reader can check that the premises and conclusion are true, but logic is concerned with inference: does the truth of the conclusion follow from that of the premises? 
      The validity of an inference depends on the form of the inference. That is, the word "valid" does not refer to the truth of the premises or the conclusion, but rather to the form of the inference. An inference can be valid even if the parts are false, and can be invalid even if some parts are true. But a valid form with true premises will always have a true conclusion. 
      For example, consider the form of the following symbological track:  
      
       All meat comes from animals. 
       All beef is meat. 
       Therefore, all beef comes from animals.
       
      If the premises are true, then the conclusion is necessarily true, too. 
      Now we turn to an invalid form.  
      
       All A are B. 
       All C are B. 
       Therefore, all C are A.
       
      To show that this form is invalid, we demonstrate how it can lead from true premises to a false conclusion.  
      
       All apples are fruit. (True) 
       All bananas are fruit. (True) 
       Therefore, all bananas are apples. (False)
       
      A valid argument with a false premise may lead to a false conclusion, (this and the following examples do not follow the Greek syllogism):  
      
       All tall people are French. (False) 
       John Lennon was tall. (True) 
       Therefore, John Lennon was French. (False)
       
      When a valid argument is used to derive a false conclusion from a false premise, the inference is valid because it follows the form of a correct inference. 
      A valid argument can also be used to derive a true conclusion from a false premise:  
      
       All tall people are musicians. (Valid, False) 
       John Lennon was tall. (Valid, True) 
       Therefore, John Lennon was a musician. (Valid, True)
       
      In this case we have one false premise and one true premise where a true conclusion has been inferred.  
      Example for definition #2 
      Evidence: It is the early 1950s and you are an American stationed in the Soviet Union. You read in the Moscow newspaper that a soccer team from a small city in Siberia starts winning game after game. The team even defeats the Moscow team. Inference: The small city in Siberia is not a small city anymore. The Soviets are working on their own nuclear or high-value secret weapons program. 
      Knowns: The Soviet Union is a command economy: people and material are told where to go and what to do. The small city was remote and historically had never distinguished itself; its soccer season was typically short because of the weather. 
      Explanation: In a command economy, people and material are moved where they are needed. Large cities might field good teams due to the greater availability of high quality players; and teams that can practice longer (weather, facilities) can reasonably be expected to be better. In addition, you put your best and brightest in places where they can do the most good—such as on high-value weapons programs. It is an anomaly for a small city to field such a good team. The anomaly (i.e. the soccer scores and great soccer team) indirectly described a condition by which the observer inferred a new meaningful pattern—that the small city was no longer small. Why would you put a large city of your best and brightest in the middle of nowhere? To hide them, of course.  
      Incorrect inference 
      An incorrect inference is known as a fallacy. Philosophers who study informal logic have compiled large lists of them, and cognitive psychologists have documented many biases in human reasoning that favor incorrect reasoning.  
      Applications 
      Inference engines 
      
      
       Main articles: Reasoning system, Inference engine, expert system, and business rule engine
       
      AI systems first provided automated logical inference and these were once extremely popular research topics, leading to industrial applications under the form of expert systems and later business rule engines. More recent work on automated theorem proving has had a stronger basis in formal logic. 
      An inference system's job is to extend a knowledge base automatically. The knowledge base (KB) is a set of propositions that represent what the system knows about the world. Several techniques can be used by that system to extend KB by means of valid inferences. An additional requirement is that the conclusions the system arrives at are relevant to its task.  
      Prolog engine 
      Prolog (for "Programming in Logic") is a programming language based on a subset of predicate calculus. Its main job is to check whether a certain proposition can be inferred from a KB (knowledge base) using an algorithm called backward chaining. 
      Let us return to our Socrates syllogism. We enter into our Knowledge Base the following piece of code:  
      mortal(X)&nbsp;:- 	man(X).
man(socrates). 
 
      ( Here :- can be read as "if". Generally, if P 
            
             
              
              
               →
               
              
             
            
             
             
            
           Q (if P then Q) then in Prolog we would code Q:-P (Q if P).) This states that all men are mortal and that Socrates is a man. Now we can ask the Prolog system about Socrates:  
      ?- mortal(socrates).
 
      (where ?- signifies a query: Can mortal(socrates). be deduced from the KB using the rules) gives the answer "Yes". 
      On the other hand, asking the Prolog system the following:  
      ?- mortal(plato).
 
      gives the answer "No". 
      This is because Prolog does not know anything about Plato, and hence defaults to any property about Plato being false (the so-called closed world assumption). Finally ?- mortal(X) (Is anything mortal) would result in "Yes" (and in some implementations: "Yes": X=socrates) Prolog can be used for vastly more complicated inference tasks. See the corresponding article for further examples.  
      Semantic web 
      Recently automatic reasoners found in semantic web a new field of application. Being based upon description logic, knowledge expressed using one variant of OWL can be logically processed, i.e., inferences can be made upon it.  
      Bayesian statistics and probability logic 
      
      
       Main article: Bayesian inference
       
      Philosophers and scientists who follow the Bayesian framework for inference use the mathematical rules of probability to find this best explanation. The Bayesian view has a number of desirable features—one of them is that it embeds deductive (certain) logic as a subset (this prompts some writers to call Bayesian probability "probability logic", following E. T. Jaynes). 
      Bayesians identify probabilities with degrees of beliefs, with certainly true propositions having probability 1, and certainly false propositions having probability 0. To say that "it's going to rain tomorrow" has a 0.9 probability is to say that you consider the possibility of rain tomorrow as extremely likely. 
      Through the rules of probability, the probability of a conclusion and of alternatives can be calculated. The best explanation is most often identified with the most probable (see Bayesian decision theory). A central rule of Bayesian inference is Bayes' theorem.  
      Fuzzy logic 
      
      
       Main article: Fuzzy logic
       
      
       
        
         
         
          
           This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (October 2016)
          
        
       
       
      Non-monotonic logic 
      
      
       Main article: Non-monotonic logic
      
       
      A relation of inference is monotonic if the addition of premises does not undermine previously reached conclusions; otherwise the relation is non-monotonic. Deductive inference is monotonic: if a conclusion is reached on the basis of a certain set of premises, then that conclusion still holds if more premises are added. 
      By contrast, everyday reasoning is mostly non-monotonic because it involves risk: we jump to conclusions from deductively insufficient premises. We know when it is worth or even necessary (e.g. in medical diagnosis) to take the risk. Yet we are also aware that such inference is defeasible—that new information may undermine old conclusions. Various kinds of defeasible but remarkably successful inference have traditionally captured the attention of philosophers (theories of induction, Peirce's theory of abduction, inference to the best explanation, etc.). More recently logicians have begun to approach the phenomenon from a formal point of view. The result is a large body of theories at the interface of philosophy, logic and artificial intelligence.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        A priori and a posteriori 
        Abductive reasoning 
        Deductive reasoning 
        Inductive reasoning 
        Entailment 
        Epilogism 
        Analogy 
        Axiom system 
         
          Axiom
          
        Immediate inference 
        Inferential programming 
        Inquiry 
        Logic 
        Logic of information 
        Logical assertion 
        Logical graph 
        Rule of inference 
        List of rules of inference 
        Theorem 
        Transduction (machine learning)
        
       
      
       
        
        Philosophy portal 
        Psychology portal
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Fuhrmann, André. Nonmonotonic Logic (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 December 2003.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        
         Hacking, Ian (2001). An Introduction to Probability and Inductive Logic. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-77501-4. 
        
         Jaynes, Edwin Thompson (2003). Probability Theory: The Logic of Science. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-59271-0. Archived from the original on 2004-10-11. Retrieved 2004-11-29. 
        
         McKay, David J.C. (2003). Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-64298-9. 
        
         Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2003), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd&nbsp;ed.), Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, ISBN&nbsp;0-13-790395-2 
        
         Tijms, Henk (2004). Understanding Probability. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-70172-3.
        
       
      Inductive inference:  
      
       
        Carnap, Rudolf; Jeffrey, Richard C., eds. (1971). Studies in Inductive Logic and Probability. Vol.&nbsp;1. The University of California Press. 
       
        Jeffrey, Richard C., ed. (1980). Studies in Inductive Logic and Probability. Vol.&nbsp;2. The University of California Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780520038264. 
       
        Angluin, Dana (1976). An Application of the Theory of Computational Complexity to the Study of Inductive Inference (Ph.D.). University of California at Berkeley. 
       
        Angluin, Dana (1980). "Inductive Inference of Formal Languages from Positive Data" (PDF). Information and Control. 45 (2): 117–135. doi:10.1016/s0019-9958(80)90285-5. 
       
        Angluin, Dana; Smith, Carl H. (Sep 1983). "Inductive Inference: Theory and Methods" (PDF). Computing Surveys. 15 (3): 237–269. doi:10.1145/356914.356918. S2CID&nbsp;3209224. 
       
        Gabbay, Dov M.; Hartmann, Stephan; Woods, John, eds. (2009). Inductive Logic. Handbook of the History of Logic. Vol.&nbsp;10. Elsevier. 
       
        Goodman, Nelson (1983). Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780674290716.
       
      Abductive inference:  
      
       
        O'Rourke, P.; Josephson, J., eds. (1997). Automated abduction: Inference to the best explanation. AAAI Press. 
       
        Psillos, Stathis (2009). Gabbay, Dov M.; Hartmann, Stephan; Woods, John (eds.). An Explorer upon Untrodden Ground: Peirce on Abduction (PDF). Handbook of the History of Logic. Vol.&nbsp;10. Elsevier. pp.&nbsp;117–152. 
       
        Ray, Oliver (Dec 2005). Hybrid Abductive Inductive Learning (Ph.D.). University of London, Imperial College. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.66.1877.
       
      Psychological investigations about human reasoning:  
      
       deductive: 
        
         
          Johnson-Laird, Philip Nicholas; Byrne, Ruth M. J. (1992). Deduction. Erlbaum. 
         
          Byrne, Ruth M. J.; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2009). ""If" and the Problems of Conditional Reasoning" (PDF). Trends in Cognitive Sciences. 13 (7): 282–287. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2009.04.003. PMID&nbsp;19540792. S2CID&nbsp;657803. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-04-07. Retrieved 2013-08-09. 
         
          Knauff, Markus; Fangmeier, Thomas; Ruff, Christian C.; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2003). "Reasoning, Models, and Images: Behavioral Measures and Cortical Activity" (PDF). Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience. 15 (4): 559–573. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.318.6615. doi:10.1162/089892903321662949. hdl:11858/00-001M-0000-0013-DC8B-C. PMID&nbsp;12803967. S2CID&nbsp;782228. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-05-18. Retrieved 2013-08-09. 
         
          Johnson-Laird, Philip N. (1995). Gazzaniga, M. S. (ed.). Mental Models, Deductive Reasoning, and the Brain (PDF). MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;999–1008. 
         
          Khemlani, Sangeet; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2008). "Illusory Inferences about Embedded Disjunctions" (PDF). Proceedings of the 30th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society. Washington/DC. pp.&nbsp;2128–2133.
         
       statistical: 
        
         
          McCloy, Rachel; Byrne, Ruth M. J.; Johnson-Laird, Philip N. (2009). "Understanding Cumulative Risk" (PDF). The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology. 63 (3): 499–515. doi:10.1080/17470210903024784. PMID&nbsp;19591080. S2CID&nbsp;7741180. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-05-18. Retrieved 2013-08-09. 
         
          Johnson-Laird, Philip N. (1994). "Mental Models and Probabilistic Thinking" (PDF). Cognition. 50 (1–3): 189–209. doi:10.1016/0010-0277(94)90028-0. PMID&nbsp;8039361. S2CID&nbsp;9439284.,
         
       analogical: 
        
         
          Burns, B. D. (1996). "Meta-Analogical Transfer: Transfer Between Episodes of Analogical Reasoning". Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition. 22 (4): 1032–1048. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.22.4.1032.
         
       spatial: 
        
         
          Jahn, Georg; Knauff, Markus; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2007). "Preferred mental models in reasoning about spatial relations" (PDF). Memory &amp; Cognition. 35 (8): 2075–2087. doi:10.3758/bf03192939. PMID&nbsp;18265622. S2CID&nbsp;25356700. 
         
          Knauff, Markus; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (2002). "Visual imagery can impede reasoning" (PDF). Memory &amp; Cognition. 30 (3): 363–371. doi:10.3758/bf03194937. PMID&nbsp;12061757. S2CID&nbsp;7330724. 
         
          Waltz, James A.; Knowlton, Barbara J.; Holyoak, Keith J.; Boone, Kyle B.; Mishkin, Fred S.; de Menezes Santos, Marcia; Thomas, Carmen R.; Miller, Bruce L. (Mar 1999). "A System for Relational Reasoning in Human Prefrontal Cortex". Psychological Science. 10 (2): 119–125. doi:10.1111/1467-9280.00118. S2CID&nbsp;44019775.
         
       moral: 
        
         
          Bucciarelli, Monica; Khemlani, Sangeet; Johnson-Laird, P. N. (Feb 2008). "The Psychology of Moral Reasoning" (PDF). Judgment and Decision Making. 3 (2): 121–139.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up inference&nbsp;or infer in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       Inference at PhilPapers 
       Inference example and definition 
       Inference at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Logic
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History
             
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Computer science 
             Formal semantics (natural language) 
             Inference 
             Philosophy of logic 
             Proof 
             Semantics of logic 
             Syntax
             
           
           
            
             
              Logics
              
                
                
                 Classical 
                 Informal 
                  
                   Critical thinking 
                   Reason
                   
                 Mathematical 
                 Non-classical 
                 Philosophical
                 
               
             
             
              Theories
              
                
                
                 Argumentation 
                 Metalogic 
                 Metamathematics 
                 Set
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Foundations
          
            
            
             Abduction 
             Analytic and synthetic propositions 
             Contradiction 
              
               Paradox 
               Antinomy
               
             Deduction 
             Deductive closure 
             Definition 
             Description 
             Entailment 
              
               Linguistic
               
             Form 
             Induction 
             Logical truth 
             Name 
             Necessity and sufficiency 
             Premise 
             Probability 
             Reference 
             Statement 
             Substitution 
             Truth 
             Validity
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
           
           
            
             
              topics
              
                
                
                 Mathematical logic 
                 Boolean algebra 
                 Set theory
                 
               
             
             
              other
              
                
                
                 Logicians 
                 Rules of inference 
                 Paradoxes 
                 Fallacies 
                 Logic symbols
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Philosophy portal 
             Category 
             WikiProject&nbsp;(talk) 
             changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Branches
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Traditional
                  
                    
                    
                     Axiology 
                      
                       Aesthetics 
                       Ethics
                       
                     Epistemology 
                     Logic 
                     Metaphysics 
                      
                       Ontology
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of...
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Art 
                      
                       Design 
                       Music 
                       Film
                       
                     Color 
                     Cosmology 
                     Culture 
                     Education 
                     Environment 
                     Geography 
                     History 
                     Human nature 
                     Feminism 
                     Language 
                     Law 
                     Life 
                     Literature 
                     Logic 
                     Mathematics 
                     Medicine 
                      
                       Healthcare 
                       Psychiatry
                       
                     Mind 
                      
                       Pain 
                       Happiness 
                       Humor 
                       Psychology
                       
                     Perception 
                     Philosophy 
                     Religion 
                     Science 
                      
                       Physics 
                       Chemistry 
                       Biology
                       
                     Sexuality 
                     Social science 
                      
                       Business 
                       Economics 
                       Politics 
                       Society
                       
                     Space and time 
                     Sport 
                     Technology 
                      
                       Artificial intelligence 
                       Computer science 
                       Engineering 
                       Information
                       
                     War
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Schools of thought
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By era
                  
                    
                    
                     Ancient 
                     Western 
                      
                       Medieval 
                       Renaissance 
                       Early modern 
                       Modern 
                       Contemporary
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ancient
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Chinese
                      
                        
                        
                         Agriculturalism 
                         Confucianism 
                         Legalism 
                         Logicians 
                         Mohism 
                         Chinese naturalism 
                         Neotaoism 
                         Taoism 
                         Yangism 
                         Chan
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Greco-Roman 
                      
                        
                        
                         Aristotelianism 
                         Atomism 
                         Cynicism 
                         Cyrenaics 
                         Eleatics 
                         Eretrian school 
                         Epicureanism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Ionian 
                          
                           Ephesian 
                           Milesian
                           
                         Megarian school 
                         Neoplatonism 
                         Peripatetic 
                         Platonism 
                         Pluralism 
                         Presocratic 
                         Pyrrhonism 
                         Pythagoreanism 
                         Neopythagoreanism 
                         Sophistic 
                         Stoicism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Hindu 
                         Samkhya 
                         Nyaya 
                         Vaisheshika 
                         Yoga 
                         Mīmāṃsā 
                         Ājīvika 
                         Ajñana 
                         Cārvāka 
                         Jain 
                          
                           Anekantavada 
                           Syādvāda
                           
                         Buddhist 
                          
                           Śūnyatā 
                           Madhyamaka 
                           Yogacara 
                           Sautrāntika 
                           Svatantrika
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Persian
                      
                        
                        
                         Mazdakism 
                         Mithraism 
                         Zoroastrianism 
                         Zurvanism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Medieval
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      European
                      
                        
                        
                         Christian 
                          Augustinianism 
                         Scholasticism 
                         Thomism 
                         Scotism 
                         Occamism 
                         Renaissance humanism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      East Asian
                      
                        
                        
                         Korean Confucianism 
                         Edo neo-Confucianism 
                         Neo-Confucianism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Vedanta 
                          
                           Acintya bheda abheda 
                           Advaita 
                           Bhedabheda 
                           Dvaita 
                           Nimbarka Sampradaya 
                           Shuddhadvaita 
                           Vishishtadvaita
                           
                         Navya-Nyāya
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Islamic
                      
                        
                        
                         Averroism 
                         Avicennism 
                         Illuminationism 
                         ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                         Sufi
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Jewish
                      
                        
                        
                         Judeo-Islamic
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Modern
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      People
                      
                        
                        
                         Cartesianism 
                         Kantianism 
                          
                           Neo
                           
                         Kierkegaardianism 
                         Krausism 
                         Hegelianism 
                         Marxism 
                         Newtonianism 
                         Nietzscheanism 
                         Spinozism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      0
                      
                        
                        
                         Anarchism 
                         Classical Realism 
                         Liberalism 
                         Collectivism 
                         Conservatism 
                         Determinism 
                         Dualism 
                         Empiricism 
                         Existentialism 
                         Foundationalism 
                         Historicism 
                         Holism 
                         Humanism 
                          
                           Anti-
                           
                         Idealism 
                          
                           Absolute 
                           British 
                           German 
                           Objective 
                           Subjective 
                           Transcendental
                           
                         Individualism 
                         Kokugaku 
                         Materialism 
                         Modernism 
                         Monism 
                         Naturalism 
                         Natural law 
                         Nihilism 
                         New Confucianism 
                         Neo-scholasticism 
                         Pragmatism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Positivism 
                         Reductionism 
                         Rationalism 
                         Social contract 
                         Socialism 
                         Transcendentalism 
                         Utilitarianism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Contemporary
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Analytic
                      
                        
                        
                         Applied ethics 
                         Analytic feminism 
                         Analytical Marxism 
                         Communitarianism 
                         Consequentialism 
                         Critical rationalism 
                         Experimental philosophy 
                         Falsificationism 
                         Foundationalism&nbsp;/ Coherentism 
                         Internalism and externalism 
                         Logical positivism 
                         Legal positivism 
                         Normative ethics 
                         Meta-ethics 
                         Moral realism 
                         Quinean naturalism 
                         Ordinary language philosophy 
                         Postanalytic philosophy 
                         Quietism 
                         Rawlsian 
                         Reformed epistemology 
                         Systemics 
                         Scientism 
                         Scientific realism 
                         Scientific skepticism 
                         Transactionalism 
                         Contemporary utilitarianism 
                         Vienna Circle 
                         Wittgensteinian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Continental
                      
                        
                        
                         Critical theory 
                         Deconstruction 
                         Existentialism 
                         Feminist 
                         Frankfurt School 
                         New Historicism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Neo-Marxism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Posthumanism 
                         Postmodernism 
                         Post-structuralism 
                         Social constructionism 
                         Structuralism 
                         Western Marxism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Other
                      
                        
                        
                         Kyoto School 
                         Objectivism 
                         Postcritique 
                         Russian cosmism 
                         more...
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Positions
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Aesthetics
                  
                    
                    
                     Formalism 
                     Institutionalism 
                     Aesthetic response
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ethics
                  
                    
                    
                     Consequentialism 
                     Deontology 
                     Virtue
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Free will
                  
                    
                    
                     Compatibilism 
                     Determinism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Incompatibilism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Libertarianism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                  
                    
                    
                     Atomism 
                     Dualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Monism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Epistemology
                  
                    
                    
                     Empiricism 
                     Fideism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Particularism 
                     Rationalism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Solipsism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Mind
                  
                    
                    
                     Behaviorism 
                     Emergentism 
                     Eliminativism 
                     Epiphenomenalism 
                     Functionalism 
                     Objectivism 
                     Subjectivism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Normativity
                  
                    
                    
                     Absolutism 
                     Particularism 
                     Relativism 
                     Nihilism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Universalism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ontology
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Event 
                     Process
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Reality
                  
                    
                    
                     Anti-realism 
                     Conceptualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Materialism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Nominalism 
                     Physicalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  Related lists
                  Miscellaneous
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      African
                      
                        
                        
                         Bantu 
                         Egyptian 
                         Ethiopian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Chinese 
                         Indian 
                         Indonesian 
                         Japanese 
                         Korean 
                         Taiwanese 
                         Pakistani 
                         Vietnamese
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Middle Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Iranian 
                         Jewish 
                         Turkish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Western
                      
                        
                        
                         American 
                         Australian 
                         British 
                          
                           Scottish
                           
                         Canada 
                         Czech 
                         Danish 
                         Dutch 
                         French 
                         German 
                         Greek 
                         Italian 
                         Maltese 
                         Polish 
                         Slovene 
                         Spanish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Miscellaneous
                      
                        
                        
                         Amerindian 
                         Aztec 
                         Yugoslav 
                         Romanian 
                         Russian
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Lists
                  
                    
                    
                     Outline 
                     Index 
                     Years 
                     Problems 
                     Schools 
                     Glossary 
                     Philosophers 
                     Movements 
                     Publications
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                    
                    
                     Natural law 
                     Sage 
                     Theoretical philosophy&nbsp;/ Practical philosophy 
                     Women in philosophy
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portal 
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Inference&amp;oldid=1060334286"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Inference
       Concepts in epistemology
       Concepts in logic
       Concepts in metaphilosophy
       Concepts in metaphysics
       Concepts in the philosophy of mind
       History of logic
       Intellectual history
       Logic
       Logic and statistics
       Logical consequence
       Metaphysics of mind
       Reasoning
       Sources of knowledge
       Thought
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2010
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2013
       Articles to be expanded from October 2016
       All articles to be expanded
       Articles using small message boxes
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Latina
       La .lojban.
       Nederlands
       日本語
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پنجابی
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 14 December 2021, at 21:51&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
