
 
  
   
  Semantic network - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Semantic network 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Knowledge base that represents semantic relations between concepts in a network
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Example of a semantic network
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Network science
        
        
         
           
            
            
             
              
             
             
            
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Theory
           
          
        
        
          
          
           Graph 
           Complex network 
           Contagion 
           Small-world 
           Scale-free 
           Community structure 
           Percolation 
           Evolution 
           Controllability 
           Graph drawing 
           Social capital 
           Link analysis 
           Optimization 
           Reciprocity 
           Closure 
           Homophily 
           Transitivity 
           Preferential attachment 
           Balance theory 
           Network effect 
           Social influence
           
        
        
          Network types
        
        
          
          
           Informational (computing) 
           Telecommunication 
           Transport 
           Social 
           Scientific collaboration 
           Biological 
           Artificial neural 
           Interdependent 
           Semantic 
           Spatial 
           Dependency 
           Flow 
           on-Chip
           
        
        
          Graphs
        
        
          
          
          
           
            
              Features
            
            
              
              
               Clique 
               Component 
               Cut 
               Cycle 
               Data structure 
               Edge 
               Loop 
               Neighborhood 
               Path 
               Vertex 
               Adjacency list&nbsp;/ matrix 
               Incidence list&nbsp;/ matrix
               
            
            
              Types
            
            
              
              
               Bipartite 
               Complete 
               Directed 
               Hyper 
               Multi 
               Random 
               Weighted
               
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Metrics
            Algorithms
           
          
        
        
          
          
           Centrality 
           Degree 
           Motif 
           Clustering 
           Degree distribution 
           Assortativity 
           Distance 
           Modularity 
           Efficiency
           
        
        
          Models
        
        
          
          
          
           
            
              Topology
            
            
              
              
               Random graph 
               Erdős–Rényi 
               Barabási–Albert 
               Fitness model 
               Watts–Strogatz 
               Exponential random (ERGM) 
               Random geometric (RGG) 
               Hyperbolic (HGN) 
               Hierarchical 
               Stochastic block 
               Blockmodeling 
               Maximum entropy 
               Soft configuration 
               LFR Benchmark
               
            
            
              Dynamics
            
            
              
              
               Boolean network 
               agent based 
               Epidemic/SIR
               
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
            Categories
           
          
        
        
          
          
           Topics 
           Software 
           Network scientists
           
          
           Category:Network theory 
           Category:Graph theory
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Information mapping
        
        
          Topics and fields
        
        
          
          
           Business decision mapping 
           Data visualization 
           Graphic communication 
           Infographics 
           Information design 
           Knowledge visualization 
           Mental model 
           Morphological analysis 
           Visual analytics 
           Visual language
           
        
        
          Node–link approaches
        
        
          
          
           Argument map 
           Cladistics 
           Cognitive map 
           Concept lattice 
           Concept map 
           Conceptual graph 
           Decision tree 
           Dendrogram 
           Graph drawing 
           Hyperbolic tree 
           Hypertext 
           Issue map 
           Issue tree 
           Layered graph drawing 
           Mind map 
           Object-role modeling 
           Organizational chart 
           Radial tree 
           Semantic network 
           Sociogram 
           Timeline 
           Topic map 
           Tree structure
           
        
        
          See also
        
        
          
          
           Design rationale 
           Diagrammatic reasoning 
           Entity–relationship model 
           Geovisualization 
           List of concept- and mind-mapping software 
           Olog 
           Problem structuring methods 
           Semantic Web 
           Treemapping 
           Wicked problem
           
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      A semantic network, or frame network is a knowledge base that represents semantic relations between concepts in a network. This is often used as a form of knowledge representation. It is a directed or undirected graph consisting of vertices, which represent concepts, and edges, which represent semantic relations between concepts, mapping or connecting semantic fields. A semantic network may be instantiated as, for example, a graph database or a concept map. Typical standardized semantic networks are expressed as semantic triples. 
      Semantic networks are used in natural language processing applications such as semantic parsing and word-sense disambiguation. Semantic networks can also be used as a method to analyze large texts and identify the main themes and topics (e.g., of social media posts), to reveal biases (e.g., in news coverage), or even to map an entire research field.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Basics of semantic networks 
        3 Examples 
          
          3.1 In Lisp 
          3.2 WordNet 
          3.3 Other examples 
           
        4 Software tools 
        5 See also 
          
          5.1 Other examples 
           
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Examples of the use of semantic networks in logic, directed acyclic graphs as a mnemonic tool, dates back centuries. The earliest documented use being the Greek philosopher Porphyry's commentary on Aristotle's categories in the third century AD. 
      In computing history, "Semantic Nets" for the propositional calculus were first implemented for computers by Richard H. Richens of the Cambridge Language Research Unit in 1956 as an "interlingua" for machine translation of natural languages. Although the importance of this work and the CLRU was only belatedly realized. 
      Semantic networks were also independently implemented by Robert F. Simmons and Sheldon Klein, using the first order predicate calculus as a base, after being inspired by a demonstration of Victor Yngve. The "line of research was originated by the first President of the Association , Victor Yngve, who in 1960 had published descriptions of algorithms for using a phrase structure grammar to generate syntactically well-formed nonsense sentences. Sheldon Klein and I about 1962-1964 were fascinated by the technique and generalized it to a method for controlling the sense of what was generated by respecting the semantic dependencies of words as they occurred in text." Other researchers, most notably M. Ross Quillian and others at System Development Corporation helped contribute to their work in the early 1960s as part of the SYNTHEX project. It's from these publications at SDC that most modern derivatives of the term "semantic network" cite as their background. Later prominent works were done by Allan M. Collins and Quillian (e.g., Collins and Quillian; Collins and Loftus Quillian). Still later in 2006, Hermann Helbig fully described MultiNet. 
      In the late 1980s, two Netherlands universities, Groningen and Twente, jointly began a project called Knowledge Graphs, which are semantic networks but with the added constraint that edges are restricted to be from a limited set of possible relations, to facilitate algebras on the graph. In the subsequent decades, the distinction between semantic networks and knowledge graphs was blurred. In 2012, Google gave their knowledge graph the name Knowledge Graph. The Semantic Link Network was systematically studied as a social semantics networking method. Its basic model consists of semantic nodes, semantic links between nodes, and a semantic space that defines the semantics of nodes and links and reasoning rules on semantic links. The systematic theory and model was published in 2004. This research direction can trace to the definition of inheritance rules for efficient model retrieval in 1998 and the Active Document Framework ADF. Since 2003, research has developed toward social semantic networking. This work is a systematic innovation at the age of the World Wide Web and global social networking rather than an application or simple extension of the Semantic Net (Network). Its purpose and scope are different from that of the Semantic Net (or network). The rules for reasoning and evolution and automatic discovery of implicit links play an important role in the Semantic Link Network. Recently it has been developed to support Cyber-Physical-Social Intelligence. It was used for creating a general summarization method. The self-organised Semantic Link Network was integrated with a multi-dimensional category space to form a semantic space to support advanced applications with multi-dimensional abstractions and self-organised semantic links It has been verified that Semantic Link Network play an important role in understanding and representation through text summarisation applications. Semantic Link Network has been extended from cyberspace to cyber-physical-social space. Competition relation and symbiosis relation as well as their roles in evolving society were studied in the emerging topic: Cyber-Physical-Social Intelligence 
      More specialized forms of semantic networks has been created for specific use. For example, in 2008, Fawsy Bendeck's PhD thesis formalized the Semantic Similarity Network (SSN) that contains specialized relationships and propagation algorithms to simplify the semantic similarity representation and calculations.  
      Basics of semantic networks 
      A semantic network is used when one has knowledge that is best understood as a set of concepts that are related to one another. 
      Most semantic networks are cognitively based. They also consist of arcs and nodes which can be organized into a taxonomic hierarchy. Semantic networks contributed ideas of spreading activation, inheritance, and nodes as proto-objects.  
      Examples 
      In Lisp 
      The following code shows an example of a semantic network in the Lisp programming language using an association list.  
      
       (setq *database*
'((canary  (is-a bird)
           (color yellow)
           (size small))
  (penguin (is-a bird)
           (movement swim))
  (bird    (is-a vertebrate)
           (has-part wings)
           (reproduction egg-laying))))

       
      To extract all the information about the "canary" type, one would use the assoc function with a key of "canary".  
      WordNet 
      
      
       Main article: WordNet
       
      An example of a semantic network is WordNet, a lexical database of English. It groups English words into sets of synonyms called synsets, provides short, general definitions, and records the various semantic relations between these synonym sets. Some of the most common semantic relations defined are meronymy (A is a meronym of B if A is part of B), holonymy (B is a holonym of A if B contains A), hyponymy (or troponymy) (A is subordinate of B; A is kind of B), hypernymy (A is superordinate of B), synonymy (A denotes the same as B) and antonymy (A denotes the opposite of B). 
      WordNet properties have been studied from a network theory perspective and compared to other semantic networks created from Roget's Thesaurus and word association tasks. From this perspective the three of them are a small world structure.  
      Other examples 
      It is also possible to represent logical descriptions using semantic networks such as the existential graphs of Charles Sanders Peirce or the related conceptual graphs of John F. Sowa. These have expressive power equal to or exceeding standard first-order predicate logic. Unlike WordNet or other lexical or browsing networks, semantic networks using these representations can be used for reliable automated logical deduction. Some automated reasoners exploit the graph-theoretic features of the networks during processing. 
      Other examples of semantic networks are Gellish models. Gellish English with its Gellish English dictionary, is a formal language that is defined as a network of relations between concepts and names of concepts. Gellish English is a formal subset of natural English, just as Gellish Dutch is a formal subset of Dutch, whereas multiple languages share the same concepts. Other Gellish networks consist of knowledge models and information models that are expressed in the Gellish language. A Gellish network is a network of (binary) relations between things. Each relation in the network is an expression of a fact that is classified by a relation type. Each relation type itself is a concept that is defined in the Gellish language dictionary. Each related thing is either a concept or an individual thing that is classified by a concept. The definitions of concepts are created in the form of definition models (definition networks) that together form a Gellish Dictionary. A Gellish network can be documented in a Gellish database and is computer interpretable. 
      SciCrunch is a collaboratively edited knowledge base for scientific resources. It provides unambiguous identifiers (Research Resource IDentifiers or RRIDs) for software, lab tools etc. and it also provides options to create links between RRIDs and from communities. 
      Another example of semantic networks, based on category theory, is ologs. Here each type is an object, representing a set of things, and each arrow is a morphism, representing a function. Commutative diagrams also are prescribed to constrain the semantics. 
      In the social sciences people sometimes use the term semantic network to refer to co-occurrence networks. The basic idea is that words that co-occur in a unit of text, e.g. a sentence, are semantically related to one another. Ties based on co-occurrence can then be used to construct semantic networks. This process includes identifying keywords in the text, constructing co-occurrence networks, and analyzing the networks to find central words and clusters of themes in the network. It is a particularly useful method to analyze large text and big data.  
      Software tools 
      There are also elaborate types of semantic networks connected with corresponding sets of software tools used for lexical knowledge engineering, like the Semantic Network Processing System (SNePS) of Stuart C. Shapiro or the MultiNet paradigm of Hermann Helbig, especially suited for the semantic representation of natural language expressions and used in several NLP applications. 
      Semantic networks are used in specialized information retrieval tasks, such as plagiarism detection. They provide information on hierarchical relations in order to employ semantic compression to reduce language diversity and enable the system to match word meanings, independently from sets of words used. 
      The Knowledge Graph proposed by Google in 2012 is actually an application of semantic network in search engine. 
      Modeling multi-relational data like semantic networks in low-dimensional spaces through forms of embedding has benefits in expressing entity relationships as well as extracting relations from mediums like text. There are many approaches to learning these embeddings, notably using Bayesian clustering frameworks or energy-based frameworks, and more recently, TransE (NIPS 2013). Applications of embedding knowledge base data include Social network analysis and Relationship extraction.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Abstract semantic graph 
        Chunking (psychology) 
        CmapTools 
        Concept map 
        Network diagram 
        Ontology (information science) 
        Repertory grid 
        Semantic lexicon 
        Semantic similarity network 
        Semantic neural network 
        SemEval – an ongoing series of evaluations of computational semantic analysis systems 
        Sparse distributed memory 
        Taxonomy (general) 
        Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) 
        Word-sense disambiguation (WSD) 
        Resource Description Framework
        
       
      Other examples 
      
       Cognition Network Technology 
       Lexipedia 
       OpenCog 
       Open Mind Common Sense (OMCS) 
       Schema.org 
       SNOMED CT 
       Universal Networking Language (UNL) 
       Wikidata 
       Freebase
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b John F. Sowa (1987). "Semantic Networks". In Stuart C Shapiro (ed.). Encyclopedia of Artificial Intelligence. Retrieved 29 April 2008.  
        ^ Poon, Hoifung, and Pedro Domingos. "Unsupervised semantic parsing." Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: Volume 1-Volume 1. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2009.  
        ^ Sussna, Michael. "Word sense disambiguation for free-text indexing using a massive semantic network." Proceedings of the second international conference on Information and knowledge management. ACM, 1993.  
        ^ 
          Segev, Elad (2021). Semantic Network Analysis in Social Sciences. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;9780367636524.  
        ^ 
          Lehmann, Fritz; Rodin, Ervin Y., eds. (1992). Semantic networks in artificial intelligence. International series in modern applied mathematics and computer science. Vol.&nbsp;24. Oxford; New York: Pergamon Press. p.&nbsp;6. ISBN&nbsp;978-0080420127. OCLC&nbsp;26391254. The first semantic network for computers was Nude, created by R. H. Richens of the Cambridge Language Research Unit in 1956 as an interlingua for machine translation of natural languages.  
        ^ 
          Robert F. Simmons (1963). "Synthetic language behavior". Data Processing Management. 5 (12): 11–18.  
        ^ Simmons, "Themes From 1972", ACL Anthology, 1982  
        ^ Quillian, R. A notation for representing conceptual information: An application to semantics and mechanical English para- phrasing. SP-1395, System Development Corporation, Santa Monica, 1963.  
        ^ 
          Allan M. Collins; M. R. Quillian (1969). "Retrieval time from semantic memory". Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior. 8 (2): 240–247. doi:10.1016/S0022-5371(69)80069-1.  
        ^ 
          Allan M. Collins; M. Ross Quillian (1970). "Does category size affect categorization time?". Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior. 9 (4): 432–438. doi:10.1016/S0022-5371(70)80084-6.  
        ^ 
          Allan M. Collins; Elizabeth F. Loftus (1975). "A spreading-activation theory of semantic processing". Psychological Review. 82 (6): 407–428. doi:10.1037/0033-295x.82.6.407. S2CID&nbsp;14217893.  
        ^ Quillian, M. R. (1967). Word concepts: A theory and simulation of some basic semantic capabilities. Behavioral Science, 12(5), 410–430.  
        ^ Quillian, M. R. (1968). Semantic memory. Semantic information processing, 227–270.  
        ^ 
          Quillian, M. R. (1969). "The teachable language comprehender: a simulation program and theory of language". Communications of the ACM. 12 (8): 459–476. doi:10.1145/363196.363214. S2CID&nbsp;15304609.  
        ^ Quillian, R. Semantic Memory. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Carnegie Institute of Technology, 1966.  
        ^ 
          Helbig, H. (2006). Knowledge Representation and the Semantics of Natural Language (PDF). ISBN&nbsp;978-3540244615.  
        ^ 
          James, P. (1992). "Knowledge Graphs" (PDF). In Van de Riet, R. P. (ed.). Linguistic Instruments in Knowledge Engineering. Elsevier Science Publishers. p.&nbsp;98. ISBN&nbsp;978-0444883940. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 August 2016. Note from the cited chapter: The author's name P. James is a pseudonym for the group of researchers that took part in or are still taking part in the project "Knowledge Graphs", that was started as a joint project of the universities of Groningen and Twente in the Netherlands. Alstein, de By, Edens, and Miltenburg were students that contributed to the project. In the course of the project, members of the project group have been R.R. Bakker, H. van den Berg, C. Hoede, M.A.W. Houtsma, H.J. Smit, F.N. Stokman, P.H. de Vries, and M. Willems.   
        ^ 
          Hulpus, Ioana; Prangnawarat, Narumol (2015). "Path-Based Semantic Relatedness on Linked Data and Its Use to Word and Entity Disambiguation". The Semantic Web – ISWC 2015: 14th International Semantic Web Conference, Bethlehem, PA, USA, October 11–15, 2015, Proceedings, Part 1. International Semantic Web Conference 2015. Springer International Publishing. p.&nbsp;444. ISBN&nbsp;9783319250076.  
        ^ 
          McCusker, James P.; Chastain, Katherine (April 2016). "What is a Knowledge Graph?". authorea.com. Retrieved 15 June 2016. usage  has evolved  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Knowledge Grid, World Scientific Publishing Co. 2004.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Inheritance rules for flexible model retrieval. Decision Support Systems 22(4)(1998)379–390  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Active e-document framework ADF: model and tool. Information &amp; Management 41(1): 87–97 (2003)  
        ^ H.Zhuge and L.Zheng, Ranking Semantic-linked Network, WWW 2003  
        ^ H.Zhuge, The Semantic Link Network, in The Knowledge Grid: Toward Cyber-Physical Society, World Scientific Publishing Co. 2012.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, L. Zheng, N. Zhang and X. Li, An automatic semantic relationships discovery approach. WWW 2004: 278–279.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Communities and Emerging Semantics in Semantic Link Network: Discovery and Learning, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 21(6)(2009)785–799.  
        ^ H.Zhuge, Semantic linking through spaces for cyber-physical-socio intelligence: A methodology, Artificial Intelligence, 175(2011)988–1019.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Multi-Dimensional Summarization in Cyber-Physical Society, Morgan Kaufmann, 2016.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, The Web Resource Space Model, Springer, 2008.  
        ^ H.Zhuge and Y.Xing, Probabilistic Resource Space Model for Managing Resources in Cyber-Physical Society, IEEE Transactions on Service Computing, 5(3)(2012)404–421.  
        ^ X. Sun and H. Zhuge, Summarization of Scientific Paper through Reinforcement Ranking on Semantic Link Network, IEEE ACCESS, 2018, doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2856530.  
        ^ M.Cao, X.Sun and H. Zhuge, The contribution of cause-effect link to representing the core of scientific paper—The role of Semantic Link Network, PLOS ONE, 2018, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0199303.  
        ^ H. Zhuge, Cyber-Physical-Social Intelligence on Human-Machine-Nature Symbiosis, Springer, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Bendeck, Fawsy (2008). WSM-P workflow semantic matching platform. München: Verl. Dr. Hut. ISBN&nbsp;9783899638547. OCLC&nbsp;501314022.  
        ^ 
          Swigger, Kathleen. "Semantic.ppt". Retrieved 23 March 2011.  
        ^ 
          Steyvers, M.; Tenenbaum, J.B. (2005). "The Large-Scale Structure of Semantic Networks: Statistical Analyses and a Model of Semantic Growth". Cognitive Science. 29 (1): 41–78. arXiv:cond-mat/0110012. doi:10.1207/s15516709cog2901_3. PMID&nbsp;21702767. S2CID&nbsp;6000627.  
        ^ 
          Wouter Van Atteveldt (2008). Semantic Network Analysis: Techniques for Extracting, Representing, and Querying Media Content (PDF). BookSurge Publishing.  
        ^ 
          Segev, Elad (2020). "Textual network analysis: Detecting prevailing themes and biases in international news and social media". Sociology Compass. 14 (4). doi:10.1111/soc4.12779. S2CID&nbsp;212890998.  
        ^ 
          Segev, Elad (2021). Semantic Network Analysis in Social Sciences. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;9780367636524.  
        ^ 
          "Stuart C. Shapiro".  
        ^ 
          "Hermann Helbig".  
        ^ 
          Bordes, Antoine; Usunier, Nicolas; Garcia-Duran, Alberto; Weston, Jason; Yakhnenko, Oksana (2013), Burges, C. J. C.; Bottou, L.; Welling, M.; Ghahramani, Z. (eds.), "Translating Embeddings for Modeling Multi-relational Data" (PDF), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26, Curran Associates, Inc., pp.&nbsp;2787–2795, retrieved 29 November 2018  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Allen, J. and A. Frisch (1982). "What's in a Semantic Network". In: Proceedings of the 20th. annual meeting of ACL, Toronto, pp.&nbsp;19–27. 
       John F. Sowa, Alexander Borgida (1991). Principles of Semantic Networks: Explorations in the Representation of Knowledge.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Semantic networks.
         
       
       
      
       "Semantic Networks" by John F. Sowa 
       "Semantic Link Network"  by Hai Zhuge
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Semantic Web
           
         
         
          Background
          
            
            
             Databases 
             Hypertext 
             Internet 
             Ontologies 
             Semantics 
             Semantic networks 
             World Wide Web
             
           
         
         
          Sub-topics
          
            
            
             Dataspaces 
             Hyperdata 
             Linked data 
             Rule-based systems
             
           
         
         
          Applications
          
            
            
             Semantic analytics 
             Semantic broker 
             Semantic computing 
             Semantic mapper 
             Semantic matching 
             Semantic publishing 
             Semantic reasoner 
             Semantic search 
             Semantic service-oriented architecture 
             Semantic wiki
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Collective intelligence 
             Description logic 
             Folksonomy 
             Geotagging 
             Information architecture 
             Knowledge extraction 
             Knowledge management 
             Knowledge representation and reasoning 
             Library 2.0 
             Digital library 
             Digital humanities 
             Metadata 
             References 
             Topic map 
             Web 2.0 
             Web engineering 
             Web Science Trust
             
           
         
         
          Standards
          
           
           
            
             
              Syntax and supporting technologies
              
                
                
                 HTTP 
                 IRI 
                  
                   URI
                   
                 RDF 
                  
                   triples 
                   RDF/XML 
                   JSON-LD 
                   Turtle 
                   TriG 
                   Notation3 
                   N-Triples 
                   TriX (no W3C standard)
                   
                 RRID 
                 SPARQL 
                 XML 
                 Semantic HTML
                 
               
             
             
              Schemas, ontologies and rules
              
                
                
                 Common Logic 
                 OWL 
                 RDFS 
                 Rule Interchange Format 
                 Semantic Web Rule Language 
                 ALPS 
                 SHACL
                 
               
             
             
              Semantic annotation
              
                
                
                 eRDF 
                 GRDDL 
                 Microdata 
                 Microformats 
                 RDFa 
                 SAWSDL 
                 Facebook Platform
                 
               
             
             
              Common vocabularies
              
                
                
                 DOAP 
                 Dublin Core 
                 FOAF 
                 Schema.org 
                 SIOC 
                 SKOS
                 
               
             
             
              Microformat vocabularies
              
                
                
                 hAtom 
                 hCalendar 
                 hCard 
                 hProduct 
                 hRecipe 
                 hReview
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Semantic_network&amp;oldid=1067728902"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Knowledge representation
       Networks
       Semantic relations
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from January 2021
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       Қазақша
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenščina
       Suomi
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 21:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
