
 
  
   
  Knowledge economy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Knowledge economy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Approach to generating value
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article may be confusing or unclear to readers. Please help clarify the article. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page. (December 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Economics
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches and classifications
           
            
            
             Schools of economics 
             Mainstream economics 
             Heterodox economics 
             Economic methodology 
             Economic theory 
             Political economy 
             Microeconomics 
             Macroeconomics 
             International economics 
             Applied economics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Econometrics 
             JEL classification codes
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts, theory and techniques
           
            
            
             Economic systems 
             Economic growth 
             Market 
             National accounting 
             Experimental economics 
             Computational economics 
             Game theory 
             Operations research 
             Middle income trap 
             Industrial complex
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By application
           
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Behavioral 
             Business 
             Cultural 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Digitization 
             Ecological 
             Economic geography 
             Economic history 
             Economic planning 
             Economic policy 
             Economic sociology 
             Economic statistics 
             Education 
             Engineering 
             Environmental 
             Evolutionary 
             Expeditionary 
             Feminist 
             Financial 
             Happiness economics 
             Health 
             Humanistic economics 
             Industrial organization 
             Information 
             Institutional 
             Knowledge 
             Labour 
             Law 
             Managerial 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Organizational 
             Personnel 
             Public economics 
             Public&nbsp;/ Social choice 
             Regional 
             Rural 
             Service 
             Socioeconomics 
             Solidarity economy 
             Urban 
             Welfare 
             Welfare economics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable economists
           
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             John Stuart Mill 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Irving Fisher 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             John Hicks 
             Wassily Leontief 
             Paul Samuelson 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Critique of economy
           
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Assume a can opener
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable critics of economy
           
            
            
             Karl Marx 
             John Ruskin 
             Jean Baudrillard 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Glossary 
             Economists 
             Publications&nbsp;(journals)
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and Economics portal 
           &nbsp;Money portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Economic systems
        
        
          
          
           Major types
           
           
           
            Capitalism 
            Socialism 
            Communism
            
          
        
        
          
          
           
            By ideology
           
            
            
             Associative 
             Capitalist 
              
               Corporate 
               Democratic 
               Laissez-faire 
               Mercantilist 
               Neoliberal 
               Neomercantilist 
               Protectionist 
               Social market 
               State 
               Welfare
               
             Democratic 
             Fascist 
             Feminist 
             Georgist 
             Green 
             Religious 
              
               Christian 
               Islamic
               
             Socialist 
              
               Anarchist 
               Communalist 
               Communist 
               Market socialist 
               Mutualist 
               Participatory 
               Socialist market 
               Socialist-oriented market 
               State 
               Syndicalist
               
             Social credit 
             Distributist 
             Traditionalist 
              
               Corporatist 
               Feudalism
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By coordination
           
            
            
             Closed (autarky) 
             Decentralized 
             Digital 
             Dirigist 
             Dual 
             Gift 
             Informal 
             Market 
             Mixed 
             Natural 
             Open 
             Planned 
             Robinson Crusoe 
             Subsistence 
             Underground 
             Vertical archipelago 
             Virtual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By regional model
           
            
            
             Asian 
              
               East Asian 
               Chinese 
               Singaporean
               
             European 
              
               Anglo-Saxon 
               German 
               Nordic 
               Dutch 
               Rhenish 
               Soviet
               
             Latin America 
              
               Socialism of the 21st century
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Sectors
           
            
            
             Common ownership 
             Private 
             Public 
             Voluntary
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Property types
           
            
            
             Collective ownership 
             Commons (Common ownership) 
             Private property 
             State ownership 
             Social ownership
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Transition
           
            
            
             Collectivization 
             Communization 
             Corporatization 
             Demutualization 
             Deregulation 
             Expropriation 
             Financialization 
             Liberalization 
             Marketization 
             Municipalization 
             Mutualization 
             Nationalization 
             Privatization 
             Socialization 
              
               Marxist
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Coordination
           
            
            
             Barter 
             Market 
              
               Free 
               Open 
               Regulated
               
             Planning 
              
               In kind 
               Cybernetics 
               Indicative 
               Material balancing
               
             Price 
             Self-managed 
              
               Peer-to-peer 
               Sharing 
               Open access
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Other types
           
            
            
             Commons-based peer production 
             Expeditionary 
             Hunter-gatherer 
             Inclusive Democracy 
             Information 
             Manorialism 
             Newly industrialized 
             Palace 
             Plantation 
             Plutonomy 
             Post-capitalist 
             Post-industrial 
             Post-scarcity 
             Resource-based 
             Token 
             Traditional 
             Transition 
             World
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and economics portal
          
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      The knowledge economy (or the knowledge-based economy) is an economic system in which the production of goods and services is based principally on knowledge-intensive activities that contribute to advancement in technical and scientific innovation. The key element of value is the greater dependence on human capital and intellectual property for the source of the innovative ideas, information and practices. Organisations are required to capitalise this "knowledge" into their production to stimulate and deepen the business development process. There is less reliance on physical input and natural resources. A knowledge-based economy relies on the crucial role of intangible assets within the organisations' settings in facilitating modern economic growth. 
      A knowledge economy features a highly skilled workforce within the microeconomic and macroeconomic environment; institutions and industries create jobs that demand specialized skills in order to meet the global market needs. Knowledge is viewed as an additional input to labour and capital. In principle, one's primary individual capital is knowledge together with the ability to perform so as to create economic value. 
      In a knowledge economy, highly skilled jobs require excellent technical skills and relational skills such as problem-solving, the flexibility to interface with multiple discipline areas as well as the ability to adapt to changes as opposed to moving or crafting physical objects in conventional manufacturing-based economies. A knowledge economy stands in contrast to an agrarian economy, in which the primary economic activity is subsistence farming for which the main requirement is manual labour or an industrialized economy that features mass production in which most of the workers are relatively unskilled. 
      A knowledge economy emphasizes the importance of skills in a service economy, the third phase of economic development, also called a post-industrial economy. It is related to an information economy, which emphasizes the importance of information as non-physical capital, and a digital economy, which emphasizes the degree to which information technology facilitates trade. For companies, intellectual property such as trade secrets, copyrighted material, and patented processes become more valuable in a knowledge economy than in earlier eras. 
      The global economy transition to a knowledge economy is also referred to as the Information Age, bringing about an information society. The term knowledge economy was made famous by Peter Drucker as the title of Chapter 12 in his book The Age of Discontinuity (1969), that Drucker attributed to economist Fritz Machlup, originating in the idea of scientific management developed by Frederick Winslow Taylor.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Concepts 
          
          1.1 Knowledge-based economy and human capital 
           
        2 Evolution 
        3 Globalisation 
        4 Technology 
          
          4.1 Challenges for developing countries 
           
        5 See also 
        6 Notes 
        7 Bibliography 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Concepts 
      Knowledge-based economy and human capital 
      An economic system that is not knowledge-based is considered to be inconceivable. It describes the process of consumption and production activities that are satisfied from the application of workers' expertise - intellectual capital and typically represents a significant level of individual economic activities in modern developed economies through building an interconnected and advanced global economy where sources of knowledge are the critical contributors. 
      The present concept for "knowledge" is origins from the historical and philosophical studies by Gilbert Ryle and Israel Scheffler who conducted knowledge to the terms "procedural knowledge" and "conceptual Knowledge" and identified two types of skills: "routine competencies or facilities" and "critical skills" that is intelligent performance; and it's further elaborated by Lundvall and Johnson who defined "knowledge" economically highlighting four broad categories:  
      
       Know-what&nbsp;: is of the knowledge about "facts", presenting the ownership of information. Examples include population of a country and history evidence. As with information revolution is emerging, complex occupations such as law and medicine remain highly demanding for knowledge and expertise under this category. 
       Know-why&nbsp;: is of the study within the human mind and society at the base of the knowledge of principles and laws of motion in nature. It concerns the theoretical research of scientific and technological fields, which is essential for allowing innovation in the production process and products development in areas such as universities and specialised firms. It can also reduce error frequency in procedures. 
       Know-who&nbsp;: refers to the specific and selective social relations, that is the identification of the key persons that know the solutions and are able to perform under difficult scenarios. Finding the right people can be more essential than knowing basic scientific knowledge for the success of innovation. 
       Know-how&nbsp;: is of an individual's skills and experience to do different kinds of things on a practical level. Individuals share experiences in groups with uniform practices. It constitutes the human capital of enterprises.
       
      In a knowledge economy, human intellectual is the key engine of economic enhancement. It is an economy where members acquire, create, disseminate and apply knowledge for facilitating economic and social development. The World Bank has spoken of knowledge economies by associating it to a four - pillar framework that analyses the rationales of a human capital based economies:  
      
       An educated and skilled labour force: The establishment of a strong knowledge-based economy required workers to have the ability to continuously learn and apply their skills to build and practice knowledge efficiently. 
       A dense and modern information infrastructure: is of the easy access to the information and communication technology (ICT) resources in order to overcome the barrier of high transaction cost, and to facilitate the effectiveness in interacting, disseminating and processing the information and knowledge resources. 
       An effective innovation system: a great level of innovation within firms, industries, and countries to keep up with the latest global technology and human intelligence so as to utilize it for the domestic economy 
       Institutional regime that supports incentives for entrepreneurship and the use of knowledge: An economy system should offer incentives to allow for better efficiency in mobilizing and allocating resources, together with encouraging entrepreneurship.
       
      The advancement of a knowledge-based economy occurred when global economies promote changes in material production, together with the creation of rich mechanisms of economic theories after the second world war that tend to integrate science, technology and the economy. 
      Peter Drucker discussed the knowledge economy in the book-The Effective Executive 1966, where he described the difference between the manual workers and the knowledge workers. The manual worker is the one who works with their own hands and produces goods and services. In contrast, the knowledge worker works with their head, rather than hands, and produces ideas, knowledge as well as information. 
      Definitions around "knowledge" are considered to be vague in terms of the formalization and modelling of a knowledge economy, as it is rather a relative concept. For example, there is no sufficient evidence and consideration in whether the "information society" could serve or act as " knowledge society" interchangeably. Information in general, is not equivalent to knowledge. Their use depends on the individual and groups preferences which are "economy-dependent". Information and knowledge together are production resources that can exist without interacting with other sources. Resources are of highly independent of each other in a sense that if they connect with other available resources, they transfer into factors of productions immediately; and production factors are present only to interact with other factors. Knowledge associated with intellectual information then is said to be a production factor in the new economy that is distinguished from the traditional production factors.  
      Evolution 
      From the early days of economic studies, though economists recognised the essential link between knowledge and economic growth, it was still identified only as a supplemental element in economic factors. The idea behind has transformed in recent years when new growth theory gave praise to knowledge and technology in enhancing productivity and economic advancement. 
      Thus far, the developed society has transitioned from an agriculture-based economy, that is, the pre-industrial age where economy and wealth is primarily based upon agriculture, to an industrial economy where the manufacturing sector was booming. In the mid-1900s, the world economies moved towards a post-industrial or mass production system, where it is driven by the service sector that creates greater wealth than the manufacturing industry; to the late 1900s - 2000s, knowledge economy emerged with the highlights of the power of knowledge and human capital sector, and is now marked as the latest stage of development in global economic restructuring. In the final decades of 20th century, the knowledge economy became greatly associated with sectors based in research-intensive and high-technology industries as a result of the steadily increased demand for sophisticated science-based innovations. Knowledge economy operates differently from the past as it has been identified by the upheavals (sometimes referred to as the knowledge revolution) in technological innovations and globally competitive need for differentiation with new goods and services, and processes that develop from the research community (i.e., R&amp;D factors, universities, labs, educational institutes).Thomas A. Stewart points out that just as the industrial revolution did not end agriculture because people have to eat, the knowledge revolution is unlikely to end the industry because society remains in demands for physical goods and services. . 
      For the modern knowledge economies, especially the developed countries, information and knowledge have always taken on enormous importance in the development in either traditional or industrial economy, in particular for the efficient use of factors of production. Owners of production factors should possess and master information and knowledge so as to apply it during one's economic activity. In the knowledge economy, the specialised labor force is characterised as computer literate and well-trained in handling data, developing algorithms and simulated models, and innovating on processes and systems. Harvard Business School Professor, Michael Porter, asserts that today's economy is far more dynamic and that conventional notion of comparative advantages within a company has changed and is less relevant than the prevailing idea of competitive advantages which rests on "making more productive use of inputs, which requires continual innovation". As such, the technical STEM careers, including computer scientists, engineers, chemists, biologists, mathematicians, and scientific inventors will see continuous demand in years to come. Professor Porter further argues that a well situated clusters (that is, geographic concentrations of interconnected companies and institutions in a particular field) is vital with global economies, connect locally and globally with linked industries, manufacturers, and other entities that are related by skills, technologies, and other common inputs. Hence, knowledge is the catalyst and connective tissue in modern economies. Ruggles and Holtshouse argue the change is characterised by a dispersion of power and by managers who lead by empowering knowledge workers to contribute and make decisions. 
      With Earth's depleting natural resources, the need for green infrastructure, a logistics industry forced into just-in-time deliveries, growing global demand, regulatory policy governed by performance results, and a host of other items high priority is put on knowledge; and research becomes paramount. Knowledge provides the technical expertise, problem-solving, performance measurement and evaluation, and data management needed for the trans-boundary, interdisciplinary global scale of today's competition. 
      Worldwide examples of the knowledge economy taking place among many others include: Silicon Valley, United States; aerospace and automotive engineering in Munich, Germany; biotechnology in Hyderabad, India; electronics and digital media in Seoul, South Korea; petrochemical and energy industry in Brazil. Many other cities and regions try to follow a knowledge-driven development paradigm and increase their knowledge base by investing in higher education and research institutions in order to attract high skilled labour and better position themselves in the global competition. Yet, despite digital tools democratising access to knowledge, research shows that knowledge economy activities remain as concentrated as ever in traditional economic cores. 
      The prevailing and future economic development will be highly dominated by the technologies and network expansion, in particular on the knowledge-based social entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurship as a whole. The Knowledge economy is incorporating the network economy, where the relatively localised knowledge is now being shared among and across various networks for the benefit of the network members as a whole, to gain economies of scale in a wider, more open scale.  
      Globalisation 
      The rapid globalisation of economic activities is one of the main determinants of the emerging knowledge economy. While there are no doubts on the other stages of relative openness in the global economy, the prevailing pace and intensity of globalisation are of an extent without precedent. The fundamental microeconomic forces are the significant drives of globalising economic activities and further demands for human intelligence. Forces such as the rapid integration of the world financial and capital market since the early 1980s, which influences essentially on each level of the developed country's financial systems; increased multinational origin of the inputs to productions of both goods and services, technology transfers and information flow etc.  
      Technology 
      The technology requirements for a national innovation system as described by the World Bank Institute must be able to disseminate a unified process by which a working method may converge scientific and technology solutions, and organizational solutions. According to the World Bank Institute's definition, such innovation would further enable the World Bank Institute's vision outlined in their Millennium Development Goals.  
      Challenges for developing countries 
      The United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development report (UNCSTD, 1997) concluded that for developing countries to successfully integrate ICTs and sustainable development in order to participate in the knowledge economy they need to intervene collectively and strategically. Such collective intervention suggested would be in the development of effective national ICT policies that support the new regulatory framework, promote the selected knowledge production, and use of ICTs and harness their organizational changes to be in line with the Millennium Development Goals. The report further suggests that developing countries to develop the required ICT strategies and policies for institutions and regulations taking into account the need to be responsive to the issues of convergence.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Attention economy 
        Automation 
        Basic income guarantee 
        Cognitive-cultural economy 
        Computational knowledge economy 
        Digital Revolution 
        Digital economy 
        Endogenous growth theory 
        Frugal innovation 
        History of knowledge 
        Information economy 
        Indigo Era 
        Industrial espionage 
        International Innovation Index 
        Internet economy 
        Information revolution 
        Information society 
        Know-how trading 
        Knowledge Economic Index 
        Knowledge market 
        Knowledge organization 
        Knowledge management 
        Knowledge market 
        Knowledge policy 
        Knowledge production modes 
        Knowledge society 
        Knowledge tagging 
        Knowledge transfer §&nbsp;In the knowledge economy 
        Knowledge value chain 
        Learning economy 
        Learning society 
        Liverpool Knowledge Quarter 
        Long tail 
        Network economy 
        Precision agriculture 
        Productivity improving technologies (historical) 
        Purple economy 
        Smart city 
        Social information processing 
        Working hours
        
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ a b Powell, Walter W.; Snellman, Kaisa (2004). "The Knowledge Economy". Annual Review of Sociology. 30 (1): 199–220. doi:10.1146/annurev.soc.29.010202.100037.  
        ^ 
          Hayes, Adam (6 Feb 2020). "Knowledge economy". Investopedia. Retrieved 16 Oct 2020.  
        ^ a b 
          World, Bank (2007). Building Knowledge Economies: Advanced Strategies for Development. 1818 H Street, NW,Washington, DC 20433: World Bank Publications. pp.&nbsp;4–12. ISBN&nbsp;9780821369579.}: CS1 maint: location (link)  
        ^ 
          Pologeorgis, Nicolas A. (25 June 2019). "Employability, the Labor Force, and the Economy". investopedia. Retrieved 16 Oct 2020.  
        ^ a b c 
          Kwon, Dae-Bong (27–30 Oct 2009). Human capital and its measurement (PDF). The 3rd OECD World Forum on "Statistics, Knowledge and Policy": Charting Progress, Building Visions, Improving Life. OECD. pp.&nbsp;1–15.  
        ^ 
          Commission, European (2005). Conference on knowledge economy - Challenges for Measurement. Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities: Eurostat. pp.&nbsp;9–13. ISBN&nbsp;92-79-02207-5.  
        ^ 
          Dusi, Paola; Messetti, Giuseppina; Steinbach, Marilyn (2014). "Skills, Attitudes, Relational Abilities &amp; Reflexivity: Competences for a Multicultural Society". Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 112: 538–547. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.01.1200. ISSN&nbsp;1877-0428.  
        ^ 
          Harpan, Ioana; Draghici, Anca (20 Mar 2014). "Debate on the Multilevel Model of the Human Capital Measurement". Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 124: 170–177. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.02.474.  
        ^ 
          Kofler, Ingrid; Innerhofer, Elisa; Marcher, Anja; Gruber, Mirjam; Pechlaner, Harald (2020). The Future of High-Skilled Workers: Regional Problems and Global Challenges. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Verlag. pp.&nbsp;29–41. ISBN&nbsp;9783030428709.  
        ^ 
          Johnson, D. Gale (16 Jan 2019). "Agricultural economics". Encycloaedia Britannica, Inc. Retrieved 16 Oct 2020.  
        ^ 
          Wokutch, Richard E. (12 Feb 2014). "Newly industrialized country". Encycloaedia Britannica. Retrieved 16 Oct 2020.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Houghton, John; Sheehan, Peter (2000). A Primer on the Knowledge Economy (PDF). Melbourne City: Centre for Strategic Economic Studies, Victoria University of Technology.  
        ^ 
          Stehr, Nico; Mast, Jason L. (2012). "Knowledge Economy". Handbook on the Knowledge Economy, Volume Two. doi:10.4337/9781781005132.00009. ISBN&nbsp;9781781005132.  
        ^ 
          Foundations of the knowledge economy: innovation, learning, and clusters. Westeren, Knut Ingar. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar. 2012. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-85793-771-1. OCLC&nbsp;758983832.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
        ^ a b c 
          Unger, Roberto Mangabeira (2019-03-19). The knowledge economy. London. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-78873-497-4. OCLC&nbsp;1050279840.  
        ^ a b c d 
          "OECD Work on Knowledge and the Knowledge Economy", Advancing Knowledge and The Knowledge Economy, The MIT Press, 2006, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-25645-2, retrieved 2020-02-10  
        ^ 
          Smith, Keith (2002). "What is the 'Knowledge Economy'? Knowledge Intensity and Distributed Knowledge Bases" (PDF). Discussion Papers from United Nations University, Institute for New Technologies, No. 6. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-12-28. Retrieved 2013-09-05.  
        ^ 
          Radwan, Ismail; Pellegrini, Giulia (2010). "Singapore's Transition to the Knowledge Economy: From Efficiency to Innovation" (PDF). Knowledge, Productivity, and Innovation in Nigeria: Creating a New Economy. Washington, DC: The World Bank. pp.&nbsp;145–161. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8213-8196-0.  
        ^ 
          Rothboeck, Sandra (2000). "Human Resources and Work Organization in the Knowledge Economy – The Case of the Indian Software Industry" (PDF). }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          Blomström, Magnus; Kokko, Ari; Sjöholm, Fredrik (2002). "Growth &amp; Innovation Policies For a Knowledge Economy. Experiences From Finland, Sweden &amp; Singapore" (PDF). Working Paper 156. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-12-22.  
        ^ 
          Djeflat, Pr. Abdelkader (2009). "Building Knowledge Economies for job creation, increased competitiveness, and balanced development" (PDF). Worldbank Draft.  
        ^ 
          Antràs, Pol; Garicano, Luis; Rossi-Hansberg, Esteban (2006). "Offshoring in a Knowledge Economy" (PDF). Quarterly Journal of Economics. 121 (1): 31–77. doi:10.1093/qje/121.1.31.  
        ^ 
          Dutta, Soumitra, ed. (2012). "The Global Innovation Index 2012: Stronger Innovation Linkages for Global Growth" (PDF). INSEAD. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-04-18. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ a b 
          Drucker, Peter (1969). The Age of Discontinuity; Guidelines to Our Changing Society. New York: Harper and Row.  
        ^ a b c 
          Hudson, Ray (1 Sep 2007). "From Knowledge-based Economy to … Knowledge-based Economy? Reflections on Changes in the Economy and Development Policies in the North East of England". Regional Studies. 45: 991–1012 – via Taylor &amp; Francis online journals.  
        ^ 
          Tufano, Valente, Graziano, Materazzo, Antonio, Roberto, Enza, Modestino (18 May 2018). "Tech &amp; knowledge based economy: How mobile technologies influences the economics of small and medium activities" (PDF). Management, Knowledge and Learning International Conference 2018 - International School for Social and Business Studies: 1–65. ISBN&nbsp;978-961-6914-23-9 – via Toknowpress.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
        ^ 
          Ryle, Gilbert (1949). The concept of mind. London: Abingdon&nbsp;: Routledge. p.&nbsp;92. ISBN&nbsp;9780415485470.  
        ^ 
          Scheffler, Israel (1965). Conditions of knowledge: an introduction to epistemology and education. Chicago: Chicago&nbsp;: Scott, Foresman. p.&nbsp;92. ISBN&nbsp;0226736687.  
        ^ a b 
          Lundvall, Bengt-äke; Johnson, Björn (Dec 1994). "The Learning Economy". Journal of Industry Studies. 1 (2): 23–42. doi:10.1080/13662719400000002 – via Taylor&amp;Francis Online.  
        ^ 
          World, Bank (2007). Building knowledge economies - advanced strategies for development. 1818 H Street, NW,Washington, DC 20433: The World Bank. pp.&nbsp;23–39. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8213-6957-9.}: CS1 maint: location (link)  
        ^ a b c d e 
          Mikhailove, Kopylova, A.M, A.A. (15 Mar 2019). "Interrelation of Information and Knowledge in the Economy of the Post-Industrial Society". Problems of Enterprise Development: Theory and Practice 2018. 62: 1003 – via SHS Web of Conferences.  
        ^ 
          Kefela, Ghirmai T. (6 July 2020). "Knowledge-based economy and society has become a vital commodity to countried". International NGO Journal. 5 (7): 160–166. S2CID&nbsp;32055689 – via Academic Journals.  
        ^ a b c 
          Švarc, Jadranka; Dabić, Marina (2015-07-05). "Evolution of the Knowledge Economy: a Historical Perspective with an Application to the Case of Europe". Journal of the Knowledge Economy. 8 (1): 159–176. doi:10.1007/s13132-015-0267-2. ISSN&nbsp;1868-7865. S2CID&nbsp;152957932.  
        ^ 
          Drucker, Peter F. (2018-03-09). The Effective Executive. doi:10.4324/9780080549354. ISBN&nbsp;9780080549354.  
        ^ 
          Flew, Terry (2008). New Media: An Introduction (3rd&nbsp;ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-555149-5.  
        ^ a b c 
          Kabir, Mitt Nowshade (22 February 2019). Knowledge-based social entrepreneurship&nbsp;: understanding knowledge economy, innovation, and the future of social entrepreneurship. New York, NY. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-137-34809-8. OCLC&nbsp;1089007311.  
        ^ a b 
          Unger, Roberto Mangabeira (19 March 2019). The knowledge economy. London. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-78873-497-4. OCLC&nbsp;1050279840.  
        ^ 
          Stewart, Thomas A. (1997). Intellectual Capital. Bantam Doubleday Dell, New York. p.&nbsp;17. ISBN&nbsp;978-0385483810.  
        ^ a b 
          OECD (2001). "COMPETENCIES FOR THE KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY" (PDF). OCED ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Retrieved 26 Oct 2020.  
        ^ a b 
          Porter, Michael E. (1998). "Clusters and the New Economics of Competition" (PDF). Harvard Business Review. December (6): 77–90. PMID&nbsp;10187248.  
        ^ 
          Ruggles, Rudy and David Holtshouse, ed. (1999). The Knowledge Advantage. Capstone Business Books, Dover, NH. p.&nbsp;49. ISBN&nbsp;978-1841120676.  
        ^ 
          The Brookings Institution (2008). MetroPolicy: Shaping A New Federal Partnership for a Metropolitan Nation Report.  
        ^ 
          Koukoufikis, Giorgos. "Building a knowledge-driven city The case of the Gran Sasso Science Institute in L 'Aquila, Italy". Retrieved 3 March 2016.  
        ^ 
          Ojanperä, Sanna; Graham, Mark; Straumann, Ralph; Sabbata, Stefano De; Zook, Matthew (2017-03-08). "Engagement in the Knowledge Economy: Regional Patterns of Content Creation with a Focus on Sub-Saharan Africa". Information Technologies &amp; International Development. 13: 19. ISSN&nbsp;1544-7529.  
        ^ 
          The new development paradigm&nbsp;: education, knowledge economy and digital futures. Peters, Michael (Michael A.), 1948-, Besley, Tina, 1950-, Araya, Daniel, 1971-. New York, New York. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4539-1136-5. OCLC&nbsp;876042578.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
        ^ 
          Tho, Q.T.; Hui, S.C.; Fong, A.C.M.; Tru Hoang Cao (2006). "Automatic Fuzzy Ontology Generation for Semantic Web". IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering. 18 (6): 842–856. doi:10.1109/TKDE.2006.87. S2CID&nbsp;17557226.}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)  
        ^ 
          UNCSTD (1997). United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development. Report of the Working Group on ICTs for Development prepared for the 3rd Session. 12 May, Geneva, Switzerland.}: CS1 maint: location (link)  
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
       
        Arthur, W. B. (1996). Increasing Returns and the New World of Business. Harvard Business Review(July/August), 100–109. 
        Bell, D. (1974). The Coming of Post-Industrial Society: A Venture in Social Forecasting. London: Heinemann. 
        Drucker, P. (1969). The Age of Discontinuity; Guidelines to Our changing Society. New York: Harper and Row. 
        Drucker, P. (1993). Post-Capitalist Society. Oxford: Butterworth Heinemann. 
        Machlup, F. (1962). The Production and Distribution of Knowledge in the United States. Princeton: Princeton University Press. 
        Porter, M. E. Clusters and the New Economics of Competition. Harvard Business Review. (Nov-Dec 1998). 77–90. 
        Powell, Walter W. &amp; Snellman, Kaisa (2004). "The Knowledge Economy". Annual Review of Sociology 30 (1): 199–220 
        Rooney, D., Hearn, G., Mandeville, T., &amp; Joseph, R. (2003). Public Policy in Knowledge-Based Economies: Foundations and Frameworks. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. 
        Rooney, D., Hearn, G., &amp; Ninan, A. (2005). Handbook on the Knowledge Economy. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. 
        Stehr, Nico (2002). Knowledge and Economic Conduct. The Social Foundations of the Modern Economy. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. 
        The Brookings Institution. MetroPolicy: Shaping A New Federal Partnership for a Metropolitan Nation. Metropolitan Policy Program Report. (2008). 4–103.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Knowledge economy
         
       
       
      
       Legal and Regulatory Issues in the Information Economy (Wikibook)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Economics
           
         
         
          Theoretical economics
          
            
            
             Microeconomics 
              
               Decision theory 
               Price theory 
               Game theory 
               Contract theory 
               Mechanism design
               
             Macroeconomics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Computational economics 
             Behavioral economics
             
           
         
         
          Empirical economics
          
            
            
             Econometrics 
              
               Economic statistics
               
             Experimental economics 
             Economic history
             
           
         
         
          Applied economics
          
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Business 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Economic geography 
             Education 
             Environmental 
             Financial 
             Health 
             Industrial organization 
             International 
             Labour 
             Law and economics 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Economic policy 
             Public economics 
             Public choice 
             Regional 
             Socioeconomics 
             Transportation 
             Urban 
             Welfare
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Schools (history)
            of economic thought
           
          
            
            
             Mainstream 
             Heterodox 
             American (National) 
             Ancient thought 
             Anarchist 
              
               Mutualism
               
             Austrian 
             Behavioral 
             Buddhist 
             Chartalism 
              
               Modern Monetary Theory
               
             Chicago 
             Classical 
             Critique of political economy 
             Disequilibrium 
             Ecological 
             Evolutionary 
             Feminist 
             Georgism 
             Historical 
             Institutional 
             Keynesian 
              
               Neo- (neoclassical–Keynesian synthesis) 
               New 
               Post- 
                
                 Circuitism
                
               
             Malthusianism 
             Marginalism 
             Marxian 
              
               Neo-
               
             Mercantilism 
             Neoclassical 
              
               Lausanne
               
             New classical 
              
               Real business-cycle theory
               
             New institutional 
             Physiocracy 
             Socialist 
             Stockholm 
             Supply-side 
             Thermoeconomics
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Notable economists
            and thinkers
            within economics
           
          
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             Johann Heinrich von Thünen 
             Friedrich List 
             Hermann Heinrich Gossen 
             Jules Dupuit 
             Antoine Augustin Cournot 
             John Stuart Mill 
             Karl Marx 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Henry George 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Georg Friedrich Knapp 
             Francis Ysidro Edgeworth 
             Vilfredo Pareto 
             Friedrich von Wieser 
             John Bates Clark 
             Thorstein Veblen 
             John R. Commons 
             Irving Fisher 
             Wesley Clair Mitchell 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Joseph Schumpeter 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             Frank Knight 
             John von Neumann 
             Alvin Hansen 
             Jacob Viner 
             Edward Chamberlin 
             Ragnar Frisch 
             Harold Hotelling 
             Michał Kalecki 
             Oskar R. Lange 
             Jacob Marschak 
             Gunnar Myrdal 
             Abba P. Lerner 
             Roy Harrod 
             Piero Sraffa 
             Simon Kuznets 
             Joan Robinson 
             E. F. Schumacher 
             Friedrich Hayek 
             John Hicks 
             Tjalling Koopmans 
             Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen 
             Wassily Leontief 
             John Kenneth Galbraith 
             Hyman Minsky 
             Herbert A. Simon 
             Milton Friedman 
             Paul Samuelson 
             Kenneth Arrow 
             William Baumol 
             Gary Becker 
             Elinor Ostrom 
             Robert Solow 
             Amartya Sen 
             Robert Lucas Jr. 
             Joseph Stiglitz 
             Richard Thaler 
             Paul Krugman 
             Thomas Piketty 
             more
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Index 
             Lists 
             Outline 
             Publications 
             Business portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Knowledge_economy&amp;oldid=1061283337"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Knowledge economy
       Economics catchphrases
       Information Age
       Business terms
       Social information processing
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: location
       CS1 maint: others
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1: long volume value
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from December 2017
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2012
       All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       Қазақша
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Occitan
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Татарча/tatarça
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 20 December 2021, at 20:11&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
