
 
  
   
  Tom Gruber - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Tom Gruber 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Thomas Robert Gruber (born 1959) is an American computer scientist, inventor, and entrepreneur with a focus on systems for knowledge sharing and collective intelligence. He did foundational work in ontology engineering and is well known for his definition of ontologies in the context of artificial intelligence. 
      In 2007 Gruber co-founded Siri Inc., which created the Siri intelligent personal assistant and knowledge navigator. Siri Inc. was acquired by Apple in 2010, and Siri is now an integral part of iOS.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Work 
        3 Publications 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Gruber studied psychology and computer science at the Loyola University New Orleans, where he received a double major B.S. in 1981 and graduated summa cum laude. He designed and implemented a computer-assisted instruction (CAI) system for programmed-curriculum courses. It was the first of its kind at the university, and is used routinely by the Psychology department for introductory courses. In 1984 he received a M.S. in Computer and Information Science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. For his Master's research, Gruber designed and implemented an intelligent communication prosthesis assistant, a computer system which enables people with severe physical disabilities who cannot otherwise speak to communicate in natural language presented in displayed, written, or spoken form. Four years later in 1988 at the University of Massachusetts Amherst he received a Ph.D. in Computer and Information Science with the dissertation "The Acquisition of Strategic Knowledge". His dissertation research addressed a critical problem for Artificial Intelligence—knowledge acquisition—with a computer assistant that acquires strategic knowledge from experts. 
      From 1988 to 1994 Gruber was a Research Associate at the Knowledge Systems Laboratory of the Computer Science Department at Stanford University. He worked on the How Things Work, SHADE, and Knowledge Sharing Technology projects. In 1994 he became Senior Project Leader, Enterprise Integration Technologies and proposed and designed several projects using the Internet to create shared, virtual environments for collaborative learning and work (for ARPA, NASA, and NIST). During this time he also proposed a business plan for corporate training. In 1995, he founded and became Chief Technology Officer of Intraspect Software, an enterprise software company that did early commercial work on collaborative knowledge management. Intraspect applications help professional people collaborate in large distributed communities, continuously contributing to a collective body of knowledge. 
      Gruber has been a member of journal editorial boards of the "Knowledge Acquisition", "IEEE Expert" and "International Journal of Human-Computer Studies".  
      Work 
      Gruber's research interests in the 1990s were in the field of developing intelligent networked software to support human collaboration and learning. Areas of specialty include: knowledge acquisition, knowledge representation, computer-supported collaborative work, computer-mediated communication for design, and knowledge sharing technology. 
      In 1994 he was responsible for the creation of hypermail, an email to web gateway software that saw extensive use after a rewrite by a different programmer. 
      In 2007 Gruber co-founded Siri Inc., which created the Siri intelligent personal assistant and knowledge navigator. Siri Inc. was acquired by Apple in 2010, and Siri is now an integral part of iOS. In 2016, Siri was added to macOS in macOS Sierra. 
      In April 2017 Gruber spoke on the TED stage about his vision for the future of "humanistic AI" especially in regards to augmentation of human capacities such as memory. He is quoted saying, "We are in the middle of a renaissance in AI. Every time a machine gets smarter, we get smarter."  
      Publications 
      Gruber published several articles and some books, most notably:  
      
       Thomas R. Gruber (1989). The Acquisition of Strategic Knowledge. Perspectives in Artificial Intelligence. Vol.&nbsp;4. Academic Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780123047540. 
       1993. "Toward Principles for the Design of Ontologies Used for Knowledge Sharing". In: International Journal Human-Computer Studies. Vol 43, p.&nbsp;907-928. 
       1993. "A Translation Approach to Portable Ontology Specifications". In: Knowledge Acquisition, 5(2):199-220, 1993 
       2008, Ontology. Entry in the Encyclopedia of Database Systems, Ling Liu and M. Tamer Özsu (Eds.), Springer-Verlag, to appear in 2008.
       
      See also 
      
       IDEF5 
       Social Semantic Web 
       Soft ontology
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Tom Gruber Keynote Archived 2008-11-01 at the Wayback Machine at ISWC2006. Retrieved 6 Oktober 2008.  
         ^ Zhifeng Yang (2002). "Applying Information Retrieval Technology to Incremental Knowledge Management". In: Engineering and Deployment of Cooperative Information Systems: First International Conference, EDCIS 2002, Beijing, China, September 17–20, 2002&nbsp;: Proceedings. Yanbo Han (ed.), pp. 117–120  
         ^ a b c Thomas Robert Gruber Archived 2008-10-13 at the Wayback Machine. Home page at Stanford. Last updated 1995. Retrieved 6 October 2008.  
         ^ 
           Gruber, Tom (April 2017), How AI can enhance our memory, work and social lives, retrieved 2017-08-17  
         ^ DBLP: Thomas R. Gruber.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Tom Gruber Recent homepage. 
       Tom Gruber Homepage in 1994 at Stanford
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             United States 
             Australia 
             Israel 
             Croatia 
             Netherlands
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan) 
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tom_Gruber&amp;oldid=1005775912"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1959 births
       American computer scientists
       Living people
       American software engineers
       Technology company founders
       American company founders
       Semantic Web people
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Español
       Português
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 February 2021, at 10:29&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
