
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
  Information science Definition &amp; Meaning - Merriam-Webster 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
   
    
     
     
         
       SINCE 1828 
        
       
        
       
          
       
       
        
         GAMES &amp; QUIZZES THESAURUS WORD OF THE DAY FEATURES 
         SHOP  
           Buying Guide  M-W Books  
            
         
         
          
          LOG IN 
          REGISTER 
           
                 
            settings log out 
             
            MY WORDSMY WORDS   
          
         
        
        
            
          
          
           
          
             
          
         
         
         
          dictionary
          
         
          thesaurus
           view recents  
         
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
          Log in   Sign Up  
        
        
        
         Hello,
           
         
        
       
       Games &amp; Quizzes Thesaurus Word of the Day Features Buying Guide  M-W Books  
       
       
            My WordsMy Words   
            View Recents   
            Account   
        Log Out  
      
     
     
      
     
     
    
     
     
     
      
        
        
         
         information science noun 
          
           
             
              
              
              
             
             Save Word  
         
        
        
        
        
        
         
          
          Definition of information science
           
          
         
         
           
             : the collection, classification, storage, retrieval, and dissemination of recorded knowledge treated both as a pure and as an applied science  
             
          
         
         
        
        Examples of information science in a Sentence 
         Recent Examples on the Web  In each of the foundational technologies of the 21st century—artificial intelligence, semiconductors, 5G wireless, quantum information science, biotechnology and green energy—China could soon be the global leader.  —  Graham Allison And Eric Schmidt, WSJ, 7 Dec. 2021     In each of the foundational technologies of the 21st century—artificial intelligence, semiconductors, 5G wireless, quantum information science, biotechnology and green energy—China could soon be the global leader.  —  Graham Allison And Eric Schmidt, WSJ, 7 Dec. 2021     The two new institutes join three other Quantum Leap Challenge Institutes launched by NSF in 2020 to advance quantum information science, computing, sensing and simulation.  —  Michael T. Nietzel, Forbes, 3 Sep. 2021     In each of the foundational technologies of the 21st century—artificial intelligence, semiconductors, 5G wireless, quantum information science, biotechnology and green energy—China could soon be the global leader.  —  Andrew Stuttaford, National Review, 12 Dec. 2021     The funding is part of the U.S. National Quantum Initiative, which invests over $1 billion in awards to artificial intelligence and quantum information science research institutes.  —  Steve Lord, chicagotribune.com, 10 Dec. 2021     Rick Wash, an associate professor of information science and cybersecurity at Michigan State University, found that the average person is as good as a cybersecurity expert at sensing when something is weird about an email message.  —  Eric Smalley, The Conversation, 29 Nov. 2021     Ehrman-Solberg excelled at digital mapmaking — earning a master's in geography information science at the University of Minnesota — though his interests were eclectic.  —  Chris Serres, Star Tribune, 17 June 2021     Research teams could probably solve these problems, and many other challenges the quantum information science community is tackling, individually.  —  Dario Gil, Scientific American, 1 Sep. 2020    
          These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'information science.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.  
         See More 
        
        
        First Known Use of information science 
        1955, in the meaning defined above 
        
        
        
        Learn More About information science 
         
         
          
          Share information science 
           
             Post the Definition of information science to Facebook    Share the Definition of information science on Twitter   
            
           
          
          
          Time Traveler for information science    
          The first known use of information science was in 1955 
          See more words from the same year 
          
         
         
          
          Dictionary Entries Near information science 
           information retrieval  
           information science  
           information superhighway  See More Nearby Entries&nbsp;
             
              
               
               
              
             
            
          
          
          Statistics for information science 
           
           Last Updated 
           17 Jan 2022 
            Look-up Popularity 
             
            
           
          
          
          Cite this Entry 
          “Information science.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/information%20science. Accessed 11 Feb. 2022. 
           
            
            
             Style: MLA 
              
             
             Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/information%20science. Accessed 11 Feb. 2022.">MLA Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, s.v. “information science,” accessed February 11, 2022, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/information%20science.">Chicago Merriam-Webster.com dictionary. Retrieved February 11, 2022, from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/information%20science">APA Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/information%20science. Accessed 2/11/2022.">Merriam-Webster 
             
            
           
          
         
        
        
        
        
        
        More from Merriam-Webster on information science 
        Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about information science 
        
       
       
        
         
         
          WORD OF THE DAY  
          
          
           collaborate     
          
          See Definitions and Examples »  
          
          Get Word of the Day daily email! 
           
            
            
           
          
          
         
          Test Your Vocabulary  
          
         Difficult Spelling Words Quiz 
          
           
            
             
              
               
            Which is the correct spelling? 
            
            
             
              accomodate accommodate 
              acommadate acommodate  
             
            
           
           
           
            
            
            
            Test your vocabulary with our 10-question quiz! TAKE THE QUIZ 
            
           
           
           
            
            
            
            A daily challenge for crossword fanatics. TAKE THE QUIZ 
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
      
      
       Love words? Need even more definitions?
       
      Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free! Merriam-Webster unabridged 
      
     
     
      Words at Play 
       
         
           “In Vino Veritas” and Other Latin Phrases to Live By 
          Top 10 Latin Phrases 
            
         
           Language of Love: Words for Valentine's Day 
          Adonis is older than he looks, you know 
            
         
           Keeping Up with 'Passed' and 'Past' 
          Useful information for today 
            
         
           7 Uncommonly Doubled Letters 
          For word games and other shenanigans 
            
       
      
      Ask the Editors 
       
         
           'Everyday' vs. 'Every Day' 
          A simple trick to keep them separate 
            
         
           What Is 'Semantic Bleaching'? 
          How 'literally' can mean "figuratively" 
            
         
           Literally 
          How to use a word that (literally) drives some pe... 
            
         
           Is Singular 'They' a Better Choice? 
          The awkward case of 'his or her' 
            
       
      
      Word Games 
       
         
           Forms of Government 
          How do people take and hold power? 
          Take the quiz 
            
         
           Spelling Challenge Quiz 
          13 tricky words to spell 
          Take the quiz 
            
         
           How Strong Is Your Vocabulary? 
          Test your vocabulary with our 10-question quiz! 
          Take the quiz 
            
       
      
     
     
     
      
       Merriam Webster 
       
       
        
         
         Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox! 
         
         
          
          
         "> 
         
        
        
        OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES 
         
          
          LEARNER'S ESL DICTIONARY 
          MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARY API 
          SCRABBLE® WORD FINDER 
          
          
          MERRIAM-WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY 
          BRITANNICA ENGLISH - ARABIC TRANSLATION 
          NGLISH - SPANISH-ENGLISH TRANSLATION 
          
         
        
        
        FOLLOW US 
         
          
          Facebook 
          Twitter 
          YouTube 
          Instagram 
          
         
        
       
      
      
       
        
        Browse the Dictionary: 
        a 
        b 
        c 
        d 
        e 
        f 
        g 
        h 
        i 
        j 
        k 
        l 
        m 
        n 
        o 
        p 
        q 
        r 
        s 
        t 
        u 
        v 
        w 
        x 
        y 
        z 
        0-9 
        
        
        Home  
        Help  
        Apps  
        About Us  
        Shop  
        Advertising Info  
        Dictionary API  
        Contact Us  
        Join MWU  
        Videos  
        Word of the Year  
        Vocabulary Resources  
        Law Dictionary  
        Medical Dictionary  
        Privacy Policy  
        Terms of Use 
        
        
        Browse the Thesaurus  
        Browse the Medical Dictionary 
        Browse the Legal Dictionary 
        
       © 2022 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated 
       
      
     
    
    
 
