
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
    
  History of ASIS&amp;T; 
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
     
        
      
    
     
      
        
       
       
       
        
        
        
         
        
        
         240 captures 
         
          14 Jan 2006 - 02 Oct 2021
          
         
          
           
            
            
         
        
       
       
        
          
          
          Sep 
          OCT 
          Dec 
           
          
           
          18 
           
           
          
          2011 
          2012 
          2013 
          
         
        
       
       
         
         
          success
          
         
          fail
                    
        
                
        
         About this capture 
        
       
      
      
       
       
        COLLECTED BY
        
        
          Organization: Internet Archive 
          
           The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. 
          
         
          
         
          Collection: Wide Crawl started September 2012
          
          
           Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from September 2012. 
          
         
        
       
       
       
        TIMESTAMPS
        
        
         
        
         
         
        
       
     
    
   
  
  
   The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20121018105558/http://asis.org/history.html
   
    
   
    ASIS&amp;T - The Information Society for the Information Age 
      
     sign in 
     contact us 
     site index 
     
     
    
    
     
     About ASIS&amp;T; 
     Membership 
     Conferences 
     Publications 
     SIGS &amp; Chapters 
     Careers 
     E-Mail Lists 
     
     
      
       
       
      
     
    
    
     
     Home &nbsp; &gt; &nbsp; 
     About ASIS&amp;T; &nbsp; &gt; &nbsp; 
     History of ASIS&amp;T 
     
    
    
     
      
       
        
        History of ASIS&amp;T; 
        History of Information Science 
        Awards 
        Mission &amp; Vision 
        Contact Us 
        Committees &amp; Task Forces 
        Volunteer 
        News 
        Board Members 
        
       
       
       Society Presidents 
       Past Presidents of ASIS&amp;T; 
       
       
       Information Science Pioneer 
       Watson Davis Davis was President and founder of ADI. He devised methods for popularizing the study of science in general. He was editor of  Science Service and Science News Letter. He was also Director of the Science Clubs of America, which he saw as an "educational force for the future" (Current Biography). The documentation division of Science Services was established in 1935 and was the "nucleus of ADI" which was organized in 1937. Through ADI, Davis sought to solve the problems "surrounding publication, bibliography, library facilities, etc."  Glenn J. Seaborg, chairman of AEC, noted that "Watson Davis has done more for the popularization of science and the understanding of science by the general public than any other individual." According to Richards, Davis was "the pioneer microfilm enthusiast." Davis saw microfilm as "basis for a data and information revolution" (Burke). In 1934, Davis attempted to create an ILL program-the Bibliofilm Service at the NAL. He wanted to "create a constantly updated world bibliography of science" (Burke).&nbsp; 
       More Information Science Pioneers 
       
      
      
       
       History of ASIS&amp;T 
        1937 - Beginnings in Documentation
       ASIS&amp;T was founded on March 13, 1937, as the American Documentation Institute (ADI), a service organization made up of individuals nominated by and representing affiliated scientific and professional societies, foundations and government agencies.&nbsp; Its initial interest was in the development of microfilm as an aid to information dissemination.&nbsp; ADI compiled an impressive record of achievement in its early years: development of microfilm readers, cameras and services; fostering negotiations and research which resulted in the so-called "gentleman's agreement" covering the photo duplication of copyrighted materials; establishment of programs for the storage and reproduction of auxiliary publications in support of journal editors; operation of an Oriental scientific literature service during World War II; support of interlingua, an early rival of Esperanto, to foster international science communications; and co-sponsoring of the 1958 International Conference on Scientific Information. 
       1950's - Transition to Modern Information Science 
       As the number of people engaged in developing new principles and techniques in the many areas of documentation and information services increased, the Bylaws were amended in 1952 to admit individual as well as institutional members.&nbsp; Thus, ADI became the national professional society for those concerned with all elements and problems of information science.&nbsp; With the 1950's came increasing awareness of the potential of automatic devices for literature searching and information storage and retrieval.&nbsp; As these concepts grew in magnitude and potential, so did the variety of professional interests. 
       1960's - The Information Explosion 
       During the 1960's, membership increased sevenfold as the problems created by the "information explosion" became of national concern.&nbsp; Reflecting this change in its total range of activities, as well as the emergence of information science as an identifiable configuration of disciplines, the membership voted to change the name of the American Documentation Institute to the American Society for Information Science.&nbsp; The name change took effect January 1, 1968, and emphasized the fact that the membership of ASIS is uniquely concerned with all aspects of the information transfer process, a national professional organization for those concerned with designing, managing, and using information systems and technology. 
       1970's - The Move to Online Information 
       The move from batch processing to online modes, from mainframe to mini and micro computers accelerated in the 1970's.&nbsp; Traditional boundaries among disciplines began to fade and library schools added "information" in their titles.&nbsp; ASIS stopped administering the ERIC Clearinghouse on Library and Information Services, made the Mid-Year Meeting an annual event focusing on a single topic of current interest, sponsored a bicentennial conference (1976) on the role of information in the country's development, was an active participant in the planning and implementation of the White House Conference on Library and Information Services, and the Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science appeared and became a mainstay membership publication of the Society. 
       1980's - Personal Computers Change the Market 
       By the 1980's, large databases, such as Grateful Med at the National Library of Medicine, and user-oriented services such as Dialog and Compuserve, were for the first time accessible by individuals from their personal computers.&nbsp; ASIS added to and revised its Special Interest Groups (SIGs) to respond to the changes, establishing groups on office information systems and personal computers as well as international information issues and rural information services.&nbsp; By the end of the decade, SIGs were available involving non-print media, social sciences, energy and the environment, and community information systems and ASIS had its first non-North American Chapters. 
       ASIS&amp;T Today 
       As information and communication technology applications proliferate and encroach ever more on the daily lives of nearly all in the developed world, ASIS&amp;T members are at the forefront in examining the technical bases, social consequences, and theoretical understanding of online databases, widespread use of databases in government, industry, and education, and the development of the Internet and World Wide Web.&nbsp; In 2000, the Society changed its name to American Society for Information Science and Technology (ASIS&amp;T), reflecting the range of its members. 
        
        ADI Documents can be found at the Library of Congress (www.loc.gov), phone: (202) 707-5691, fax: (202) 707-6128 
       Send written correspondence to: Serial and Government Publications Division Library of Congress 101 Independence Ave. SE Washington, D.C. 20540-4760 
       
      
      
      Quick Facts 
       
       ASIS&amp;T; has existed for over 60 years and has over 4,000 members worldwide. 
       It has 56 chapters and 20 SIGs in a variety of fields, such as Bioinformatics to Visualization, Images, and Sound. 
       
       
      Mission &amp; Vision 
       
       Mission 
       The mission of the American Society for Information Science and Technology is to advance the information sciences and related applications of information technology by providing focus, opportunity, and support to information professionals and organizations.  
       Vision 
       Establish a new information professionalism in a world where information is of central importance to personal, social, political, and economic progress by: Advancing knowledge about information, its creation, properties, and use; Providing analysis of ideas, practices, and technologies; Valuing theory, research, applications, and service; Nurturing new perspectives, interests, and ideas; Increasing public awareness of the information sciences and technologies and their benefits to society.  
       
       
      ASIS&amp;T 50th Anniversary 
       
       Bulletin 50th Anniversary Issue 
       Candles for Information Science 1937-1948 1949-1958 1959-1968 1969-1978 1979-1988 Leading the Leaders Pioneers Role of Information Science Watson Davis 1987 1937-1988 Significant Readings Awards, SIGs, Chapters  
       
      
     
     
    
   
     American Society for Information Science and Technology
     1320 Fenwick Lane, Suite 510, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, USA
     Tel. 301-495-0900 / Fax: 301-495-0810 / E-mail: asis@asis.org
     disclaimer | copyright 
    
    
 
