

 
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  The information‐seeking behaviour of doctors: a review of the evidence - Davies - 2007 - Health Information &amp;amp; Libraries Journal - Wiley Online Library 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
        
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
    Skip to Article Content 
    Skip to Article Information 
    
   
   
    
     
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
             
              
              Working off-campus? Learn about our remote access options 
              
             
            
          
         
         
        
       
        
          
           
             
            
             
            
          
           
            
            
             
             
              
               
                Search withinThis JournalAnywhere
                
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
            
            
             
              
               
               
              
            
             
              
                 Login / Register  
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
          
           
            
             
               
                 
              
             
            
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              
               
                 
                
                
                  
                  
                   
                    Health Information &amp; Libraries Journal
                   Volume 24, Issue 2 p. 78-94
                   
                   
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      Free Access
                     
                    
                   
                   
                  The information-seeking behaviour of doctors: a review of the evidence 
                   
                   Correction(s) for this article 
                    
                     
                      Erratum
                       
                        
                        Volume 27Issue 4Health Information &amp; Libraries Journal 
                        pages: 341-341 
                        First Published online: November 3, 2010 
                        
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                   
                    Karen Davies, 
                      
                      Karen Davies 
                      Department of Information Science, Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leicestershire, UKSearch for more papers by this author
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      Karen Davies, 
                        
                        Karen Davies 
                        Department of Information Science, Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leicestershire, UKSearch for more papers by this author
                       
                      
                     
                    
                   
                  
                   
                    First published: 19 June 2007
                    
                   
                    https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-1842.2007.00713.x
                   
                   
                    Citations: 194
                   
                   
                  
                    Karen Davies, Department of Information Science, FK029, Holywell Park, Garendon Wing, Loughborough University, Loughborough, Leicestershire LE11 3TU, UK. E-mail: K.S.Davies@lboro.ac.uk
                   
                 
                
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     About
                     
                      
                     
                    
                    
                     Sections
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     PDF
                     
                    
                     Tools
                     
                      
                       Request permission
                       Export citation
                       Add to favorites
                       Track citation
                      
                     
                     
                    
                    
                     ShareShare
                      
                      
                       Give accessShare full text access
                      
                      
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Share full-text access
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            Please review our Terms and Conditions of Use and check box below to share full-text version of article.
                            
                             I have read and accept the Wiley Online Library Terms and Conditions of Use
                            
                           
                           
                           
                            Shareable Link
                            Use the link below to share a full-text version of this article with your friends and colleagues. Learn more.
                            
                             
                              
                              
                              
                             Copy URL
                            
                            
                           
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      Share a linkShare on
                      
                       Facebook
                       Twitter
                       Linked In
                       Reddit
                       Wechat
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                
                
                
                  
                   
                    
                    Abstract 
                     
                     This paper provides a narrative review of the available literature from the past 10&nbsp;years (1996–2006) that focus on the information seeking behaviour of doctors. The review considers the literature in three sub-themes: Theme&nbsp;1, the Information Needs of Doctors includes information need, frequency of doctors’ questions and types of information needs; Theme&nbsp;2, Information Seeking by Doctors embraces pattern of information resource use, time spent searching, barriers to information searching and information searching skills; Theme&nbsp;3, Information Sources Utilized by Doctors comprises the number of sources utilized, comparison of information sources consulted, computer usage, ranking of information resources, printed resource use, personal digital assistant (PDA) use, electronic database use and the Internet. The review is wide ranging. It would seem that the traditional methods of face-to-face communication and use of hard-copy evidence still prevail amongst qualified medical staff in the clinical setting. The use of new technologies embracing the new digital age in information provision may influence this in the future. However, for now, it would seem that there is still research to be undertaken to uncover the most effective methods of encouraging clinicians to use the best evidence in everyday practice. 
                     
                    
                   
                  
                   
                   
                   
                    
                     Introduction 
                    This narrative review is concerned with doctors’ need for information, specifically in the clinical area. The aim of this paper is to review the literature on the information needs, literature searching and resources utilized by doctors. This review will examine the past 10&nbsp;years, from 1996 to 2006, which have seen the development of user-friendly electronic resources, particularly with regard to Internet search engines. 
                    The key objectives are to report from the literature (published as journal articles): 
                     
                      
                      •  the research findings from relevant articles;  
                      •  the clinical information needs of doctors;  
                      •  the use of electronic information resources by doctors;  
                      •  where medical librarians can impact on doctors’ information-seeking behaviour.  
                      
                     
                    Since the seminal work of Covell et&nbsp;al.1 on the information needs of doctors there has been research in this area using a variety of methodologies from observation to interviews and self reports. These have commonly identified a clinical information need, but the frequency of questions raised has varied. Linked to this information need is the doctors’ willingness and ability to personally search for the answer. Clinical information needs may have tight deadlines or may occur outside the hours a library is staffed so a degree of end-user searching should be anticipated. The final element researched is the resources themselves. To ensure 24/7 access, the most viable resources are electronic. However, the range of resources available is huge and the challenge is in resource selection as much as skills in using the resource itself. 
                    The three elements: information need, literature searching and resources, are all interlinked and should not be considered in isolation. If there is no expressed information need, there is no driving force to undertake a literature search. Similarly, a lack of access or lack of search skills negatively affects the use of electronic resources to answer information needs. The actual mechanics and skills of literature searching are extensive and will not be covered in this article. 
                    
                    
                     Methodology 
                    In identifying studies (specifically journal articles) to be included in this narrative review, the following databases were searched: scopus, medline (1996–2006) and lisa: library and information science abstracts. The search strategies used keywords and was limited to English language articles. The search strategies were developed for the three separate themes and limited to the title and abstract: 
                     
                      
                      •  Theme&nbsp;1, the Information Needs of Doctors—information AND need AND (physician OR doctor OR clinician).  
                      •  Theme&nbsp;2, Information Seeking by Doctors—(information OR literature) AND (search OR seek) AND (physician OR doctor OR clinician).  
                      •  Theme&nbsp;3, Information Sources Utilized by Doctors—(resource OR database) AND (physician OR doctor OR clinician).  
                      
                     
                    Additionally, the reference lists of articles were searched. Research completed and published up to 2006 was included in this review and only published data was considered. This time restriction does mean that research prior to 1996 has been excluded from this review. 
                    The criteria for inclusion was that the focus of the paper was either information needs, literature searching or resources used by qualified (post-registration) doctors. Studies were excluded that looked at patient administration and management, such as electronic patient records. Studies were also excluded that focused on continuing education, clinical research trials and teaching. 
                    Studies were considered from both the primary and secondary care sector, so encompassing an holistic approach to health care. 
                    The review is not restricted to the UK. The professional role or job title of the doctor is dictated by the country of study. This paper will refer to the ‘doctor’, which in this context will include all medical and surgical staff, including general practitioners (GPs). Studies that focused on medical students or other healthcare staff, qualified or not, were excluded. Studies were included if doctors and other healthcare staff were involved, but the doctors results were reported separately. 
                    Studies were only included that contained the full descriptive and analytical reporting of the research. Qualitative studies were excluded. Grey literature was also not considered in this review, as only research published in journal articles was included. 
                     Table&nbsp;1 2-35 provides a comparison of the studies selected for this review. The actual date for data collection, the country where the research was undertaken, the research methodology utilized, the doctors’ professional role and the number of active participants in the research are detailed. 
                     
                     
                      Table 1. Comparison of studies selected for this review
                      
                      
                       
                        
                         
                         Study 
                         Country 
                         Date of data collection 
                         Research method 
                         Doctor's professional role 
                         Number of active particpants 
                         
                        
                        
                         
                         Ali, 20022 
                         Australia 
                         10/94–03/95 
                         Questionnaire 
                         Hospital specialists and registrars 
                         98 
                         
                         
                         Alper et&nbsp;al., 20053 
                         USA 
                         01/04–04/04 
                         Clinicians searched for answers to clinical questions 
                         Primary care clinicians 
                         52 
                         
                         
                         Andrews et&nbsp;al., 20054 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Questionnaire 
                         Primary care practitioners 
                         59 
                         
                         
                         Arroll et&nbsp;al., 20025 
                         New Zealand 
                         11/99–02/00 
                         Pre-questionnaire and direct observation 
                         Family physicians 
                         50 
                         
                         
                         Barrie and Ward, 19976 
                         Australia 
                         Not stated 
                         Doctors recorded their own questions. Followed up with a semistructure interview 
                         General practitioners 
                         27 
                         
                         
                         Bennett et&nbsp;al., 20047 
                         USA 
                         12/02–01/03 
                         Questionnaire (faxed) 
                         Physicians 
                         3347 
                         
                         
                         Bergus and Emerson, 20058 
                         USA 
                         5-year study (dates not specified) 
                         Analysed clinical questions 
                         Family medicine residents 
                         49 
                         
                         
                         Bryant, 20049 
                         UK 
                         01/99–04/99 
                         In-depth interviews and discussion groups 
                         General practitioners 
                         58 
                         
                         
                         Chambliss and Conley, 199610 
                         USA 
                         02/95–07/95 
                         Post-clinical session interviews to gather unanswered questions 
                         Family physicians 
                         9 
                         
                         
                         Cheng, 200411 
                         Hong Kong 
                         1999 
                         Questionnaire, interviews and randomized control study 
                         Hospital clinicians 
                         50 interviews, 254 questionnaires, 800 randomized control studies 
                         
                         
                         Cogdill et&nbsp;al., 200012 
                         USA 
                         1996 
                         Interviews 
                         Community-based primary care physicians 
                         15 
                         
                         
                         Crowley et&nbsp;al., 200313 
                         USA 
                         07/00–04/01 
                         Computer system collected clinical questions 
                         Internal medicine residents 
                         Not stated 
                         
                         
                         Cullen, 200214 
                         New Zealand 
                         01/01–08/01 
                         Questionnaire, followed up with interviews 
                         General practitioners 
                         294 questionnaires, 20 interviews 
                         
                         
                         D’Alessandro et&nbsp;al., 200415 
                         USA 
                         11/99–05/00 and 12/00–05/01 
                         Control group V intervention (received 10&nbsp;min training). Telephone interview using critical incident technique 
                         General paediatric residents (hospital) 
                         52 
                         
                         
                         Ebell and White, 200316 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Exit interviews and physicians self-reporting cards 
                         Physicians (from five specialisms) 
                         27 exit interviews, 35 self-report 
                         
                         
                         Ely et&nbsp;al., 200517 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Observation, interviews between patient visits and general interview 
                         Generalist physicians 
                         48 
                         
                         
                         Ely et&nbsp;al., 199918 
                         USA 
                         04/96–12/97 
                         Observation—recorded clinician's questions 
                         Family doctors 
                         103 
                         
                         
                         Green et&nbsp;al., 200019 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Interviewed after each patient visit to identify unanswered questions 
                         Primary care internal medicine residents 
                         64 
                         
                         
                         Jerome et&nbsp;al., 200120 
                         USA 
                         04/97–12/97 
                         Librarians entered clinical questions on to a database 
                         Hospital healthcare staff and patients 
                         Not stated 
                         
                         
                         Kim et&nbsp;al., 200521 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Questionnaire and semistructured interviews 
                         Office based general paediatricians 
                         20 
                         
                         
                         Lappa, 200522 
                         Greece 
                         Not stated 
                         Questionnaire 
                         Emergency-care clinicians 
                         35 
                         
                         
                         Magrabi et&nbsp;al., 200523 
                         Australia 
                         10/02–11/02 
                         Clinicians used online evidence system to answer their questions 
                         General practitioners 
                         227 
                         
                         
                         McAlister et&nbsp;al., 199924 
                         Canada 
                         06/97–10/97 
                         Questionnaire 
                         General internists 
                         294 
                         
                         
                         Oliveri et&nbsp;al., 200425 
                         Denmark 
                         07/00 
                         Questionnaire 
                         Hospital doctors 
                         225 
                         
                         
                         Ram and Wellington, 200226 
                         UK 
                         12/01–03/02 
                         Questionnaire 
                         General practitioners 
                         86 
                         
                         
                         Ramos et&nbsp;al., 200327 
                         USA 
                         Not stated 
                         Direct observation and self reporting 
                         Faculty and residents 
                         38 
                         
                         
                         Sackett and Strauss, 199828 
                         UK 
                         04/97–05/97 
                         Descriptive feasibility study of use of evidence and questionnaire 
                         Medical doctors and students 
                         17 
                         
                         
                         Schilling et&nbsp;al., 200529 
                         USA 
                         10/01–06/02 
                         Attempted to answer questions and then completed a questionnaire 
                         Internal medicine residents 
                         43 
                         
                         
                         Schwartz et&nbsp;al., 200330 
                         USA 
                         04/01–07/01 
                         Physicians recorded their questions and how they attempted to answer them 
                         Clinical faculty in an urban residency 
                         3 
                         
                         
                         Scott et&nbsp;al., 200031 
                         Australia 
                         10/98–01/99 
                         Questionnaire on EBM and literature searching 
                         Consultant physicians in adult medicine 
                         111 
                         
                         
                         Swinglehurst et&nbsp;al., 200132 
                         UK 
                         Not stated 
                         A clinical informationist answered questions 
                         General practitioners and nurse practitioners 
                         34 
                         
                         
                         Veness et&nbsp;al., 200333 
                         Australia/ New Zealand 
                         12/00 
                         Questionnaire to determine views about EBM and use of EBM resources 
                         Radiation oncologists and registrars 
                         191 
                         
                         
                         Wilson et&nbsp;al., 200334 
                         UK 
                         07/01–10/01 
                         Questionnaire on NHS Net and resources (paper and electronic) 
                         General practice staff (managers, nurses and doctors) 
                         670 
                         
                         
                         Wong and Veness, 200535 
                         Australia/ New Zealand/ Singapore 
                         2003 
                         Questionnaire to determine views about EBM and use of EBM resources 
                         Radiation oncology registrars 
                         69 
                         
                        
                       
                      
                      
                     
                    
                    
                     Information needs of doctors 
                     
                      Information need 
                     There are various types of need. The most recognizable is ‘articulated’ or expressed need, which is an actual recognized need that demands an answer.36 The need may be acknowledged, but no attempt can be made to answer it. Unperceived or unexpressed needs are not recognized as information needs.37 In other words, the doctor is unaware that there is a gap in their knowledge. 
                     It is assumed, by librarians and information specialists, that doctors have information needs associated with clinical work. However, as with any profession, the need varies amongst the population and is not homogenous. Little work has been carried out to quantify this need in the UK. The existing research and associated literature is heavily USA based. Whilst the information need expressed by US clinicians may be the same as UK clinicians, the clinical setting is not. The National Health Service (NHS) is a unique environment and very different to that of private or insurance-based practice. This is probably more applicable in the different interfaces between primary and secondary care. 
                     To fully comprehend the information-seeking behaviour of doctors, it is important to understand their information needs. Information needs are the driving force behind literature searching. 
                     Doctors have diverse information needs. Most of the studies reviewed in this article focus on clinical information needs rather than collecting data on full range of clinician's information needs. The clinical information need is relatively easily categorized and covers the main role of qualified medical staff, namely treating the patient. 
                     An issue that can negatively affect information need is information overload. Doctors can start with too little information and quickly become inundated, often with irrelevant or unreliable information. Advances in information dissemination, such as electronic newsletters, push technologies (information sent to the recipient without it being requested) and RSS feeds have increased the amount of information received by medical professionals. In fact, the hardest task now is to actually locate the information required from the flood of information received. This is a particular issue in the medical field, where the biomedical research information doubles every 20&nbsp;years.38 It would be virtually impossible for medical staff to retain all the knowledge required to treat all the patients they examine over the course of their careers. Therefore, doctors need to be able to refresh their memories and update their knowledge efficiently and effectively. 
                     
                     
                      Types of information need 
                      Table&nbsp;2 illustrates the main types of clinical information required by medical staff from selected research, organized by doctor's professional role. There are limitations to this table. Responses that are not comparable with other studies have not been included and only those reported in three or more studies have been included. Responses under 10% have also not been included. Therefore, not all the responses are shown for each study. 
                      
                      
                       Table 2. Types of information required by doctor's professional role
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                           
                          Diagnosis 
                          Drug therapy/ information 
                          Epidemiology 
                          Treatment/ therapy 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          General practitioners23 
                          40% 
                           
                           
                          35% 
                          
                          
                          General practitioners32 
                          23% 
                           
                           
                          60% 
                          
                          
                          Primary care physicians3 
                          22% 
                           
                           
                          49% 
                          
                          
                          Primary care physicians12—no student present 
                          23% 
                          29% 
                          19% 
                           
                          
                          
                          Primary care physicians12—student present 
                          33% 
                          20% 
                          18% 
                           
                          
                          
                          Family physicians5 
                          33% 
                           
                           
                          39% 
                          
                          
                          Family physicians10 
                          29% 
                          15% 
                           
                          37% 
                          
                          
                          Family medicine residents8 
                          43% 
                           
                           
                          36% 
                          
                          
                          Primary care internal medicine residents19 
                          27% 
                           
                           
                          38% 
                          
                          
                          Internal medicine residents13 
                          22% 
                           
                           
                          53% 
                          
                          
                          Internal medicine residents29 
                          19% 
                           
                           
                          43% 
                          
                          
                          Hospital staff20 
                           
                           
                           
                          53% 
                          
                          
                          Hospital clinicians11 
                           
                           
                           
                          46%* 
                          
                          
                          Hospital specialists and registrars2 
                          10% 
                          27% 
                           
                          58% 
                          
                          
                          Physicians (from five specialisms)16—self report 
                          23% 
                          50% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          Physicians (from five specialisms)16— post-patient visit Interview 
                          29% 
                          34% 
                           
                          14% 
                          
                          
                          Clinical faculty30 
                           
                           
                          13% 
                          50% 
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                        
                        *  Includes drug therapy.  
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     Comparison of the results from these studies is hindered by the different definition of terms, varied subjects, range of settings and diverse methods of data collection. However, basic analysis suggests that the top categories of information need treatment or therapy (average 38%), diagnosis (average 24%) and drug therapy/information (average 11%). 
                     The fifteen research studies reviewed used more than forty different definitions to analyse their data. However, over 90% of the studies used ‘treatment’ or ‘therapy’ and more than 80% utilized ‘diagnosis’. 
                     Two research articles analysed the questions posed according to whether they were foreground (directly related to the patient, such as diagnosis, treatment and prognosis) or background (general information on a condition or disease) in nature.11, 19 The foreground question usually contains at least three out of the four PICO39 elements: patient or problem; intervention; comparison with intervention; and outcome. Table&nbsp;3 compares the background and foreground questions posed by doctors in research by Cheng11 and Green et&nbsp;al.19 The more senior the medical professional the more likely the question will be foreground. This is understandable, as their background knowledge would have developed through experience. 
                      
                      
                       Table 3. Comparison on background and foreground questions
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                           
                          Background questions 
                          Foreground questions 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          Cheng11 
                          33% consultants 
                          67% consultants 
                          
                          
                          57% senior medical officers 
                          43% senior medical officers 
                          
                          
                          45% medical officers 
                          55% medical officers 
                          
                          
                          Green et&nbsp;al.19 
                          28% 
                          66% 
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     One research study divided the questions raised into three specific areas. Medical fact, such as the reported side-effects of a prescribed drug, accounted for 50%5 of the questions. Medical opinion, for example patient management, answered 30%.5 The remainder, 20%,5 related to non-medical information. This illustrated that the majority of the questions (80%) were related to patient care. Two research articles identified that 98%40 and 81%15 of questions related to patient care. The ‘evidence cart’ survey in the UK found that 81% of the evidence sought affected diagnostic and/or treatment decisions.28 Clinicians in New South Wales, Australia, used Clinical Information Access Program (CIAP) 75% of the time for clinical reasons, such as confirming a diagnosis, developing a treatment plan or selecting a diagnostic test.41 The purpose of searches by doctors in a study (after decentralized medline was introduced) was only for patient care 10% of the time, research 30% and for both (research and patient care) 53% of the time.42 Unfortunately research studies are unlikely to take into account information obtained for other reasons (such as education or general research) that may ultimately be utilized in patient care management. The timescale of research into clinical information needs of doctors would not allow this information to be monitored in the long term to determine if it ultimately was utilized for patient care. 
                     
                     
                      Frequency of information need 
                     The literature was considered to identify the average number of questions asked by clinicians in the clinical setting. Figure&nbsp;1 illustrates the range of questions per patient visit from selected research. 
                      
                      
                       
                         
                         
                         
                        
                        
                        
                         Figure 1
                         
                          Open in figure viewerPowerPoint
                          
                         
                         
                         The average number of questions asked per patient visit 
                         
                        
                       
                      
                     The research showed that the frequency of doctors information needs varied, ranging from 0.16 to 1.27 questions per patient. The range may be because of the different medical specialisms involved or to the different research methodologies utilized in the studies, which does hinder direct comparison of the results. From the data available it is not possible to determine definitive reasons for the varied results. 
                     Observation was the chosen methodology for one research study that resulted in higher than average questions—1.27 per patient visit.27 However, two other observational studies had results of 0.45 questions per patient18 and 0.29 questions.5 The different results between the two groups may be because of the clinical setting, as the work by Ramos et&nbsp;al.27 was in a university based clinic, which are usually teaching settings. 
                     Even within the same environment, when the circumstances altered, so did the number of questions generated. The doctors asked fewer questions when students were present—0.29 per patient compared with 0.42 when alone.12 
                     The doctors’ perceived need for information may not reflect their actual need. In one study the perceived need was lower than their actual need. Interviews after the patient visit identified more questions than self reporting by doctors.16 However, Arroll et&nbsp;al.5 found the reverse to be the case as doctors overestimated the number of questions by threefold. 
                     The average number of questions raised per patient visit from the research articles reviewed in this article is 0.47. A study by Ely et&nbsp;al.17 counted the number of questions raised by doctors in a half-day observation period (4&nbsp;h). On average doctors asked 5.5 questions per half-day. It was noticeable that the number of patients seen per session was not quantified in the article, but this figure would appear to be much higher that the other studies reviewed in this review. 
                     Gorman et&nbsp;al.43 undertook a study to determine if the information seeking behaviour of primary care medical staff in rural areas were different from those in non-rural areas. The results showed there were no statistically significant differences in terms of the number of questions asked, the number of questions pursued and the number of questions answered. This reinforced the earlier work by Dorsch44 who reached a similar conclusion. 
                     Despite the variance of number of questions raised, these research articles prove there is an information need generated by patient visits. 
                     
                     
                      Differences according to type of healthcare setting 
                     Thirteen of the studies focus on the primary care sector. Six of these studies are from New Zealand, Australia and the UK.5, 6, 9, 14, 23, 32 It is acknowledged that these studies may not be relevant for other professional groups of doctors. However, it should not be assumed that any professional group is cohesive enough to be a distinct unique group.45 Therefore, research in other specialisms in the profession may in fact produce similar results. The USA-based studies are often conducted within office practices, but these are not necessarily general practitioners as known in the UK. Moreover, a wide variety of specialists work in these environments, such as cardiologists, gastroenterologists, endocrinologists, pulmonary disease specialists and infectious disease specialists.1 There has also been research conducted outside the USA in hospital based environments.2, 11, 22, 25, 28, 31 
                     
                    
                    
                     Information seeking by doctors 
                    Whether or not information needs are pursued depends on the individual's ability to identify their need and then to express the need in terms that are searchable by themselves or a third party.36 
                    There is a distinct difference between looking up a fact and literature searching. For example, checking the dosage for a prescribing drug is an information need of the doctor and can easily be located in the British National Formulary (BNF) so does not require an extensive search of the literature. This is often not differentiated in research on doctors information needs. 
                     
                      Patterns of information resource use according to purpose of search 
                     Evaluating the complexity of questions asked by doctors suggests that 60% of the questions are simple (that is, one concept) such as the dose of a drug.5 This type of question doctors should be comfortable answering with a minimal amount of training on computers and resource selection. Therefore, to answer these simple concept questions, user education should focus on resources that can be used effectively with minimal training.46 In the UK this could include training on how to access and search resources such as the BNF and the Cochrane Library. 
                     A study focused on whether clinical questions could be answered by evidence-based medicine (EBM) resources.47 Librarians searched uptodate, the cochrane database of systematic reviews and HealthGate Clinical Guidelines to answer both complex and general care management questions. The results did not reflect well on the EBM resources. Only 20% of the complex clinical questions were answered, and just under half of the general care management queries using the EBM resources. No answers were found for 40% of the complex clinical questions and 30% of the general care management. However, the primary literature resources answered 95% of the complex clinical questions and 85% of the general care management. 
                     
                     
                      Time spent searching 
                     The key barrier to information searching is time. In one study, 60% felt time was an issue.19 Cogdill et&nbsp;al.12 found that 40% of questions were not pursued because of a lack of time. It is difficult to estimate the time that an information search will take. Searching for information 15&nbsp;years ago involved trawling through Index Medicus and browsing the journal shelves. Since the introduction of electronic databases, the time spent searching for the evidence has declined dramatically, as users do not have to travel to the library to look at physical books and journals, but can access electronic resources remotely.48 However, it is important to combine a suitable search strategy with the identification and searching of relevant information resources. 
                     In a study by Krahn et&nbsp;al.,49 an informaticist (in this case a specialist who searches and critically appraises literature) spent an average of 53&nbsp;min to answer surgery questions. Two studies had lower figures, with an average of 14.4&nbsp;min15 and a mean of 15&nbsp;min.19 However, when considering resources used at the point of care, the median search time was lower, at between 5 and 10&nbsp;min.30 The amount of time taken to answer these questions is longer than the time usually devoted to a single patient appointment. In the NHS, GP's patient appointments are generally acknowledged to be between 7 and 10&nbsp;min long. This type of information searching is not practical in the clinical setting with the patient present. In a survey of residents, 66% of their searches took only 2&nbsp;min, whilst the maximum for a search was 15&nbsp;min.27 The study of Ely et&nbsp;al.18 study found that doctors spent on average less than 2&nbsp;min pursuing an answer. The research utilizing an ‘evidence cart’ found that resources had to be accessible in between 10.2 and 25.4&nbsp;s for them to be practical at the bedside.28 In practice, if the search takes more than 2&nbsp;min it will not produce information suitable for that patient consultation. 
                     
                     
                      Time required to search effectively 
                     Some information is particularly time sensitive, especially if it influences patient care. Research indicates there are two speeds in which information is required. The first is immediate; the ‘bottom line’ required when dealing with a patient, followed by the less-immediate morning rounds, case consultations and discussions with colleagues.50 In a study by Barrie and Ward,6 61% of the questions were answered during the consultation. Sackett and Strauss28 found that 90% of the searches on patient management were successful in finding the information in the time available on rounds. A 2003 study reported answers were sought to 74% of the questions immediately, finding satisfactory answers to 87% of them.27 In another study, of the questions pursued, 25% were on the same day that the question was asked.19 This figure is much lower than the other studies. 
                     The success of the searches conducted by doctors is important as this really determines if time and effort has been successfully utilized. Residents managed to answer 89% of their questions in a study by Schilling et&nbsp;al.29 and, in another study, doctors answered 80% of the questions pursued.18 Cheng11 found that 73% of the patient-care problems were solved. A survey by Ely et&nbsp;al.17 found that, of the 55% of questions pursued, 72% were actually answered. One issue of concern is that, when information is not located, it is then assumed not to exist. However, it may actually exist, but the search strategy utilized was ineffective in retrieving the answer. This can leave the doctor with a mistaken view of the contents and coverage of the database. One study considered the efficiency of the searches. These were regarded as very good or good 18% of the time, fair 52% and poor 30% of the time.31 
                     The suggestion that clinicians only have time to complete ‘quick and dirty’ searches because of time constraints is worrying. This comment arises because speed is often the most important aspect in searching. This is where the filtered evidence resources come to the fore. The Cochrane Library provides the best evidence (systematic reviews) in a usable and understandable format. Whereas medline contains information that has not been evaluated.51 The evaluation of the ‘raw’ information from medline can be time consuming for busy clinicians. 
                     
                     
                      Perceived competence and confidence 
                     Holtum47 suggests that librarians have downplayed their skills and not highlighted the complexity of literature searching, giving health professionals a false perception of their skill levels. 
                     
                     
                      Barriers to information searching 
                      Table&nbsp;4 compares the various barriers to literature searching categorized in research studies. Only responses that occurred in two or more studies have been included and responses below 5% have been excluded. 
                      
                      
                       Table 4. Barriers to literature searching
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Study 
                          Lack of time 
                          Issues with IT or online resources 
                          Limited search skills 
                          Cost 
                          Lack of interest or urgency 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          Scott et&nbsp;al.31 
                          74% 
                          43% 
                          41% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          Green et&nbsp;al.19 
                          60% 
                           
                           
                           
                           7% 
                          
                          
                          Andrews et&nbsp;al.4 
                          76% 
                          22% 
                          25% 
                          33% 
                           
                          
                          
                          Ely et&nbsp;al.17 
                          19% 
                           8% 
                           
                           
                          15% 
                          
                          
                          Lappa22 
                           
                          74% 
                          80%+ 
                           
                           
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     The most popular response in the studies identified issues with the ‘online resources’ or ‘information technology (IT)’ in general. Two-thirds of the studies mentioned a ‘lack of time’ and half the ‘limited search skills’ of the doctors. 
                     Responses that occurred only once included: 
                      
                       
                       •  66% lacked basic IT skills;22  
                       •  49% mentioned irrelevant material;31  
                       •  25% felt that the answer did not exist or would not affect care.17  
                       
                      
                     
                     
                      Information searching skills 
                     There is so much information available that poor searching or navigating difficulties will hinder the retrieval of the required evidence.7 Information professionals realize that converting the clinical question to a searchable strategy for an information resource is a crucial skill, but is difficult to master. Inexperienced searchers have been found to use inappropriate search terms, wrong or inappropriate databases, incorrectly spelt terms, inappropriate connectors, and brand drug names rather than generic.52 A study of resident doctors disappointingly found that question formulation did not improve as they progressed in their clinical training.8 This lack of skill is compounded when the doctors believe the search failed because of a lack of relevant evidence, rather than realizing the problem was the errors in their search strategy.53 Retrieving incomplete information and the failure to locate any useful information may discourage doctors from searching for evidence again. Ely et&nbsp;al.17 found that the two key reasons why doctors failed to pursue answers was the doubt that an answer existed (25%) and referring a patient rather than undertaking a literature search (22%). 
                     A lack of training or issues with the technology is often raised by doctors. The lack of training was the most common barrier to using the Internet (74%) and databases (62%) according to a UK study.54 However, in a study by D’Alessandro et&nbsp;al.55 on accessing the digital health sciences library, only 34% of the participants had taken up the opportunity for on-site training. A study by Erickson and Warner56 indicated that 60% of the residents questioned would be interested in improving their medline skills, but none had taken advantage of existing programmes offered by the library staff. However, a study of end users found that, whilst education was important, practice was the biggest reason behind improvement in the quality of searching.57 Conversely, literature searching skills decline if not used regularly.58 A critical mass of searches is required to maintain searcher competence. A survey of Australian GPs found that they conducted on average 8.7 searches per month.23 Research on the use of CIAP in Australia found that 60% of users sought evidence more than twice a month and 30% at least once a week.41 In a survey of GPs, 45% expected to use an information source to find the latest evidence a minimum of once a fortnight.59 Therefore, it is possible for doctors to maintain their information skills at a reasonable level through regular searching. 
                     To be effective literature searchers, doctors must possess more than basic search skills. One study identified the medline search strategies that end-users utilized, namely keywords (94%), applied ‘limits’ (46%), combined terms with ‘AND’ (39%) and medical subject headings (MeSH) 11% of the time.14 Decentralizing medline increased the number of searches and the doctor's knowledge of the database.42 The search strategies included ‘by author’ (40%) and using ‘MeSH’ (60%). Concepts such as explosion (55%), and focus (55%) were also utilized. These results represent an encouragingly high use of specialist search skills. 
                     
                    
                    
                     Information sources utilized by doctors 
                    There are a vast range of resources that can be utilized by doctors, from journal articles to government reports to original research. In fact, in a time pressurized environment, such as on the patient ward, it would seem probable that there are almost too many potential information sources for doctors to locate information efficiently. Technology develops rapidly, so this section focuses on research published from 2000 onwards. 
                     
                      Number of sources utilized 
                     There are two main reasons why a question is pursued, especially beyond one information source. The first is if the doctor considers the patient's problem to be urgent. The second is the doctor's belief that an answer exists and it can be located to assist in the clinical decision-making process.60 
                     A study by D’Alessandro et&nbsp;al.15 found that on average 1.2 resources were utilized to answer one question. Potter and Rotert61 suggests that end-users choose one or two electronic resources and take the time to learn how to search them quickly and effectively. 
                     
                     
                      Comparison of information sources consulted 
                      Table&nbsp;5 compares the information sources utilized by doctors in percentages from selected research. Only responses that are comparable with other studies have been included. 
                      
                      
                       Table 5. Information sources utilized by doctors
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Study 
                          Textbooks 
                          Journal articles 
                          Humans 
                          Computer search 
                          Drug sources 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          Barrie and Ward6 
                          14% 
                           
                          40% 
                          43% 
                           
                          
                          
                          McAlister et&nbsp;al.24 
                          45% 
                          73% 
                          61% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          Ely et&nbsp;al.18 
                          36%* 
                           
                          36% 
                           
                          25% 
                          
                          
                          Cogdill et&nbsp;al.12 
                          69% 
                           
                          27% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          Green et&nbsp;al.19 
                          31% 
                          30% 
                          25% 
                           
                           5% 
                          
                          
                          Ramos et&nbsp;al.27—Resident 
                          50% 
                           
                          49% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          Ramos et&nbsp;al.27—Faculty 
                          70% 
                           
                          24% 
                           
                           
                          
                          
                          D’Alessandro et&nbsp;al.15—Control 
                          48% 
                           
                          27% 
                          15% 
                           
                          
                          
                          D’Alessandro et&nbsp;al.15—Intervention 
                          36% 
                           
                          30% 
                          21% 
                           
                          
                          
                          Ely et&nbsp;al.17 
                          39% 
                           6% 
                          18% 
                          16% 
                           
                          
                          
                          Schilling et&nbsp;al.29 
                           5% 
                          33% 
                           1% 
                          53% 
                           
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                        
                        *  Includes all printed information—textbooks, journals and information on posters.  
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     The two information sources used most frequently (averaged from the studies specified) are text books (39%), followed by ‘humans’ (25%). Computers were used on average by 13%, but the highest percentage use, 53%, occurred in the latest published research in 2005.29 
                     The heading of ‘humans’ covers all those a doctor may contact. The participants of the Green et&nbsp;al. study19 consulted with attending doctors (17%), fellow residents (5%) and speciality consultants (3%). 
                     
                     
                      Computer usage 
                     In the Ely et&nbsp;al. study of 1992,62 only 2% of the family doctors had access to personal computers in their offices, so their lack of computer usage is not surprising. By the next study of Ely et&nbsp;al.18 (using data from 1996 to 1997), 13% used computers. This figure had risen to 16% by the study published in 2005.17 
                     
                     
                      Ranking of information resources 
                      Table&nbsp;6 ranks the information sources utilized by doctors in order of their importance. Only those sources mentioned by two or more studies are included. 
                      
                      
                       Table 6. Ranking of information sources utilized by doctors
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Study 
                          Text sources 
                          Humans 
                          Personal library 
                          Electronic resources 
                          Internet 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          Arroll et&nbsp;al.5 
                          1st 
                          2nd 
                           
                          3rd 
                           
                          
                          
                          Cullen et&nbsp;al.14 
                          1st 
                          2nd 
                          3rd 
                           
                          4th 
                          
                          
                          Bryant et&nbsp;al.9 
                           
                          3rd 
                          1st 
                          2nd 
                           
                          
                          
                          Oliveri et&nbsp;al.25 
                          1st 
                          2nd 
                           
                          3rd 
                          3rd 
                          
                          
                          Bennet et&nbsp;al.7 
                          1st 
                           
                           
                           
                          3rd 
                          
                          
                          Kim et&nbsp;al.21 
                          2nd 
                          1st 
                           
                          3rd 
                          3rd 
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     Disappointingly, but not surprisingly, two-thirds of the studies ranked text sources first. In most of the studies, the category of ‘humans’ is the second choice. Clinicians often find it quicker to ask a colleague for advice.63 However, a study of clinical communications in a Bristol hospital highlighted that many of the phone calls were in fact unsuccessful attempts to locate the correct person.64 The success rate of call events (telephone and paging) was 74%. However, one-quarter of all call events were attempts to identify the name of an individual with a specific role. Medical colleagues accounted for 42% of the calls medical staff received. 
                     
                     
                      Printed resource use 
                     Ramos et&nbsp;al.27 discovered that US residents were more likely to use a pocket reference or consult another person (usually an attending or specialty consultant) to answer their questions. The faculty were more likely to consult texts (pocket reference and comprehensive texts). These results are similar to the study by Arroll et&nbsp;al.5 where the doctors’ sources for most answers were books, followed by colleagues. Only 5% of questions were answered using a computer, and most of these were simple, not complex, questions. In a study of family practitioners by Andrews et&nbsp;al.,4 print and interpersonal resources were more likely to be used than online sources. Printed drug resources were used several times a week or daily by 61% of respondents, and medical textbooks by 58%. A study of British GPs highlighted their preference for referring to paper publications rather than the electronic version of that resource.34 The resources utilized most often were the British Medical Journal (93%), Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin (92%), National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidance (82%), Bandolier (69%) and Clinical Evidence (65%). 
                     
                     
                      Personal digital assistant (PDA) use 
                     The ‘evidence cart’ experiment discovered that house staff liked having access to high quality evidence, but were more concerned with being able to access the information within 30&nbsp;s.28 The downside with the evidence cart was its bulk, but new technologies such as PDAs are more user-friendly in the clinical setting.65 There are still barriers to hand-helds, which include their reliability, size, security, limited memory and battery life.66 However, a study in a clinical setting in the UK found that hand-held technology is an effective tool to aid evidence-based medicine, as the devices held sufficient information to be relevant, accessible and effective at the point of care.67 
                     A British study found that doctors preferred UK resources to US ones. The BNF was on the PDAs in Phase&nbsp;II of a project. This was utilised by more users compared with the US drug information source from Phase&nbsp;I.67 
                     
                     
                      Electronic database use 
                     Three research studies did show substantial computer usage. In the study of Schilling et&nbsp;al.,29 the electronic sources utilized were medline (44%), uptodate (42%), Internet search engines (5%), mdconsult (3%) and the Cochrane Library (2%). The Cullen study14 found doctors accessed medline (70%), clinical guidelines websites (47%) and Cochrane Library (38%). Another study by Scott et&nbsp;al.31 found the evidence source used most frequently was medline (76%), followed by Cochrane Library (11%), and then Best Evidence (7%). 
                     In a survey by Ramos et&nbsp;al.,27 EBM resources such as Patient-Oriented Evidence that Matters (POEMs), Clinical Evidence and the Cochrane Library were rarely used by the residents. In London, a study was undertaken to determine the use of the Cochrane Library by GPs.26 Only 33% of the GPs had used the Cochrane Library and most (85%) of these had only used it occasionally. A disappointing 52% had never heard of the Cochrane Library. A later survey of UK general practice staff found that 11% were unaware of the Cochrane Library.34 However, awareness and use of Cochrane Library is increasing. A postal survey in 2000 of Australian and New Zealand radiation oncologists and registrars determined their awareness and use of electronic resources.33 These respondents were reasonably aware of the Cochrane Library, with 18% unaware of the resource. However, the figure for not knowing about database of abstracts of reviews of effectiveness (dare) was extremely high (61%), especially as this has been part of the Cochrane Collaboration since 1996. A survey of just the radiation oncologist registrars was repeated in 2003. Ninety-four per cent were aware of the Cochrane Library and 49% had used it. This is a notable increase from the 2000 data.35 Awareness of dare had risen from 19 to 50% and usage from none to 15%. 
                     In a study by Byrnes et&nbsp;al.68 participants were taught how to use medline (and access it via PubMed). Table&nbsp;7 illustrates the changes that occurred during this study. One of the major barriers when searching the primary literature sources such as medline is that the questions generated by medical clinicians rarely match those answered by health researchers.69 
                      
                      
                       Table 7. Respondents answers to specific questions over the life of the study
                       
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Questions 
                          Pre-intervention 
                          Immediate post-intervention 
                          Three months post-intervention 
                          
                         
                         
                          
                          Sometimes or often searched medline to assist in clinical decision making 
                          13% 
                          36% 
                          65% 
                          
                          
                          Often or very often incorporated information from a search into their clinical decision making 
                          13% 
                          15% 
                          30% 
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      
                     
                     
                      The Internet 
                     The Internet as an information resource for doctors has been evaluated by several studies. A postal survey of British GPs found that 82% used the Internet, but fewer (53%) used electronic biomedical databases.54 A New Zealand study reported that 48.6% of family practitioners used the Internet for clinical information.14 The respondents in this study were confused about the difference between search engines and databases. medline and PubMed were listed as ‘other search engines’ by 6% of respondents. Several medical sites such as the British Medical Journal and Cochrane Library were also listed as search engines. 
                     The Internet is a useful tool to disseminate medical research evidence and guidance. Government departments, such as the Department of Health and organizations (for example, NICE and the Royal Colleges) use the Internet to enable access to full-text documents and guidelines. Electronic databases and other resources are accessible via the National Library for Health (http://www.library.nhs.uk/Default.aspx?ref=at), either available to all for free or to NHS staff via Athens authentication passwords. 
                     Unfamiliarity with the computerized resources means searching would take even longer, as a suitable resource has to be located first.5 The Information for Health Strategy70 outlined the importance of developing ‘desktop’ facilities for clinicians. The National Electronic Library for Health, now the National Library for Health (http://www.library.nhs.uk/Default.aspx?ref=at) links to all the resources clinicians require to practice medicine and contains best-practice guidance (National Service Frameworks and the Guidelines Finder). 
                     
                    
                    
                     Discussion 
                    This review focuses on the clinical information needs of doctors. Librarians can provide doctors with the skills to answer their ‘expressed’ or identified needs.26 Needs that remain unexpressed or are not identified by doctors cannot be answered. 
                    In the available literature, the studies that have been undertaken to determine the information needs of doctors utilized many different research methodologies. Each methodology utilized has potential limitations associated with it that can impact on the results. 
                    This narrative review cannot compare like with like as the studies employ such a variety of methodologies. No systematic research has been undertaken or reported in the literature. 
                    Observation creates an unnatural environment and the observed may react differently to their normal working mode. Interviewing doctors may actually encourage questions as it allows them to revisit the patient encounter and reflect back, thus distortion of the data collected may occur. A questionnaire is also problematic as it relies on the recall of the respondent and their interpretation of the question posed. Self-reporting requires doctors to note responses during a busy clinical session, which may not be 100% complete because of time constraints and other distractions. The most effective study combines more than one method. Covell et&nbsp;al.1 used both doctor self-reported questionnaires and interviews (post-patient and post-clinic). Cheng11 utilized posted questionnaires, interviews and a randomized controlled study. 
                    Another problem with these studies is that most involved small sample sizes and therefore generalization to a larger population is problematic. The study of Ely et&nbsp;al.18 is the only one involving more than a hundred doctors, and so can be acknowledged as statistically robust. The studies of Ely et&nbsp;al.18 and Ebell and White16 are the only two that counted more than a thousand patient encounters. 
                     Table&nbsp;2 illustrates the types of information required (organized) by the professional role of the doctor. Basic analysis suggests that the top three categories are treatment or therapy, followed by diagnosis and then, a distant third, by drug therapy/information. When teaching information skills to doctors, librarians can draw attention to the different resources and different search skills. This will enable the doctors to limit the search to specified areas. 
                    The research articles that considered foreground and background questions11, 19 highlight a distinction between two types of information need. Foreground focus on the patient and background on the condition or disease. Background questions are usually a simple ‘look-up’ retrieval of information. Foreground questions are more complex and this is where teaching doctors the four elements of PICO59 is highly beneficial. 
                     Figure&nbsp;1 illustrates the frequency with which doctors asked questions derived from patient care. This ranged from 0.16 to 1.27 questions per patient. This is a substantial range and may be as a result of the different medical specialisms involved or the different research methodologies utilized. All of the research published has identified clinical information needs. Therefore, it is important that all doctors are encouraged and given opportunities to develop basic information searching skills, or alternatively are signposted to those who can find the information for them. 
                    A study by Arroll et&nbsp;al.5 identified that 60% of the questions asked by doctors are simple one-concept queries. This suggests that raising the awareness of doctors to the different resources available to them (and providing basic instruction on their use) should enable them to answer these simple questions. 
                    It is difficult to estimate how long a specific information search will take. However, ensuring that doctors have the necessary skills to effectively search should minimize the time spent locating relevant information. This is particularly important as, in certain time sensitive situations, doctors do not have time to contact the library (or the question occurs outside library opening hours) and so must undertake the search for evidence themselves. 
                    According to a UK study,34 lack of training was the most common barrier to using the Internet and electronic databases. An American study56 indicated that over half the doctors were interested in improving their medline skills, but none had taken advantage of existing education programmes offered by the library staff. Promoting the sessions offered by librarians is vital. The Internet and Intranet are useful tools, but require the doctor to seek out the information. More pro-active measures can be considered; for example, direct marketing, leaflets in staff rooms and displays in prominent areas such as the staff canteen. The onus still remains on the doctors to approach the library to actually book and attend information skills training. There is no compulsion to develop their skills and, until that is the case, it is unlikely that all doctors will develop adequate information-searching skills. 
                    From the studies reported in Table&nbsp;6, two-thirds of the doctors who responded ranked text sources first. However, these are not always the optimal sources for evidence-based practice because of the likelihood that they may not be up to date. This is not an issue if the information required is background or general information that can be retrieved from textbooks. The real issue is when searching for information that can change rapidly, such as diagnostic tests and treatments, especially drugs. Critically Appraised Topics (CATs) are a more evidence-based option, but are only the appraisal of one article. If this is not the most suitable article available on that particular subject then the value of that CAT is minimal. Printed resources were found to be preferable to the same electronic resource by British GPs.34 The doctors ranked ‘humans’ as their second choice. The ease of use and interaction with others means that for the doctor these are ideal social and informal methods for gaining information. Unfortunately, these responses may not be based on any reliable evidence. This information is more likely to be someone's opinion, which is actually ranked at the bottom of the evidence hierarchy. This suggests that, in the real world, doctors are not yet embracing the use of computerized resources. 
                    From the research of Ely et&nbsp;al.62 in 1992 to their 200517 article, the increase in use of computers illustrates an increasing awareness and usage of IT, possibly linked with the development of more user-friendly database search facilities. It is not surprising that UK doctors preferred UK drug information sources to American sources on their PDAs.67 In the clinical setting, the UK information sources would be more relevant. Despite the range of electronic resources available, no current resource was comprehensive enough or efficient enough for the clinicians.71 This is a major issue as time constraints mean clinicians would prefer to utilize one authoritative source, rather than search several information sources. The high percentage (53%) of respondents using computers in the latest research of Schilling et&nbsp;al. (2005)29 may be the start of an increased usage in IT as access and usability issues are being addressed. However, research is minimal so it is too early to suggest that this is an upwards trend in IT use by doctors. More research is required in this area. 
                    The confusion expressed by doctors about search engines (suggesting the British Medical Journal and Cochrane Library were search engines)14 raises concerns. Doctors must be aware of the validity and integrity of the websites they access. General web search engines will locate sites that do not provide authentic healthcare information. The doctor should double check and validate all information from the Web, which can be time-consuming and is not always straightforward. This tendency to use Internet search engines is not limited to doctors, as research among higher education students (JUBILEE and JUSTEIS) illustrates that, from the users perspective, search engines are the preferred method for locating information.72 Whilst the Internet is an excellent dissemination tool, doctors need to be taught by librarians how to evaluate websites. This could be a specific course on the Internet or added to existing courses delivered by librarians on information skills. 
                    The changes in the use of medline after doctors were taught how to use it,68 illustrates the importance of librarians providing information skills training sessions. The use of the Cochrane Library in the studies of 2000,31 200214 and 200529 is disappointingly low. In the context of minimizing searching and appraisal time, this is disturbing as the information in the Cochrane Library has already been critically appraised. The poor uptake of Cochrane Library suggests librarians can raise doctors’ awareness of this resource. 
                    
                    
                     Conclusion 
                    The recognized scholarly knowledge base continues to be one of the sources used by clinicians. The other options of face-to-face communication, hard copy and telephone calls still prevail in the clinical setting. The adoption and uptake of new technologies within the clinical setting may influence this in the near future. However, for now, it would seem that there is still research to be undertaken to uncover the best way(s) to encourage clinicians to use the best evidence in everyday practice. 
                    
                    
                     Key Messages 
                     
                      Implications for Practice 
                      
                       
                       •  Doctors can develop skills to undertake literature searching.  
                       •  Librarians need to highlight pre-appraised resources such as the Cochrane Library.  
                       •  Librarians need to provide information literacy training.  
                       
                      
                     
                     
                      Implications for Policy 
                      
                       
                       •  Doctors do have a need for information in the clinical setting.  
                       •  Electronic resources remain an under-utilized information source in the NHS.  
                       •  Use of evidence-based medicine needs to be championed by librarians.  
                       
                      
                     
                    
                    
                     
                      
                      
                       References
                        
                      
                       
                       1 Covell, D. G., Uman, G. C. &amp; Manning, P. R. Information needs in office practice. Are they being met? Annals of Internal Medicine 1985, 103, 596– 9. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       2 Ali, I. Library provided information and clinical decision making: a study of two hospitals in Canberra. Australian Academic and Research Libraries 2000, 31, 30– 45. 
                        
                         CrossrefGoogle Scholar
                          
                       3 Alper, B. S., White, D. S. &amp; Bin, G. Physicians answer more clinical questions and change clinical decisions more often with synthesized evidence: a randomized trial in primary care. Annals of Family Medicine 2005, 3, 507– 13. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       4 Andrews, J. E., Pearce, K. A., Ireson, C. &amp; Love, M. M. Information-seeking behaviours of practitioners in a primary care practice-based research network (PBRN). Journal of the Medical Library Association 2005, 93, 206– 12. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       5 Arroll, B., Pandit, S., Kerins, D., Tracey, J. &amp; Kerse, N. Use of information sources among New Zealand family physicians with high access to computers. Journal of Family Practice Online 2002, 51. Available from: http://www.jfponline.com (accessed 10 February 2006). 
                        
                         CASGoogle Scholar
                          
                       6 Barrie, A. R. &amp; Ward, A. M. Questioning behaviour in general practice: a pragmatic study. British Medical Journal 1997, 315, 1512– 5. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       7 Bennett, N. L., Casebeer, L. L., Kristofco, R. E. &amp; Strasser, S. M. Physicians’ Internet information-seeking behaviours. The Journal of Continuing Education in the Health Professions 2004, 24, 31– 8. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       8 Bergus, G. R. &amp; Emerson, M. Family medicine residents do not ask better-formulated clinical questions as they advance in their training. Family Medicine 2005, 37, 486– 90. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       9 Bryant, S. L. The information needs and information seeking behaviour of family doctors. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2004, 21, 84– 93. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       10 Chambliss, M. L. &amp; Conley, J. Answering clinical questions. Journal of Family Practice 1996, 43, 140– 4. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       11 Cheng, G. Y. T. A study of clinical questions posed by hospital clinicians. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 2004, 92, 445– 58. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       12 Cogdill, K. W., Friedman, C. P., Jenkins, C. G., Mays, B. E. &amp; Sharp, M. C. Information needs and information seeking in community medical education. Academic Medicine 2000, 75, 484– 6. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       13 Crowley, S. D., Owens, T. A., Schardt, C. M., Wardell, S. I., Peterson, J., Garrison, S. &amp; Keitz, S. A. A web-based compendium of clinical questions and medical evidence to educate internal medicine residents. Academic Medicine 2003, 90, 370– 9. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       14 Cullen, R. J. In search of evidence: Family practitioners’ use of the Internet for clinical information. Journal of the Medical Library Association 2002, 90, 370– 9. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       15 D’Alessandro, D. M., Krieter, C. D. &amp; Peterson, M. W. An evaluation of information-seeking behaviours of general pediatricians. Pediatrics 2004, 113, 64– 9. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       16 Ebell, M. H. &amp; White, L. What is the best way to gather clinical questions from physicians? Journal of the Medical Library Association 2003, 91, 366– 8. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       17 Ely, J. W., Osheroff, J. A., Chambliss, M. L., Ebell, M. H. &amp; Rosenbaum, M. E. Answering physicians’ clinical questions: obstacles and potential solutions. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 2005, 12, 217– 24. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       18 Ely, J. W., Osheroff, J. A., Ebell, M. H., Bergus, G. R., Levy, B. T., Chambliss, M. L. &amp; Evans, E. R. Analysis of questions asked by family doctors regarding patient care. British Medical Journal 1999, 319, 358– 61. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       19 Green, M. L., Ciampi, M. A. &amp; Ellis, P. J. Residents’ medical information needs in clinic: are they being met? American Journal of Medicine 2000, 109, 218– 23. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       20 Jerome, R. N., Giuse, N. B., Gish, K. W., Sathe, N. A. &amp; Dietrich, M. S. Information needs of clinical teams: analysis of questions received by the clinical informatics consult service. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 2001, 89, 177– 85. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       21 Kim, G. R., Bartlett, E. I. Jr. &amp; Lehmann, H. P. Information resource preferences by general paediatricians in office settings: a qualitative study. BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making 2005, 5. Available from: http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1472-6947-5-34.pdf (accessed 17 May 2006). 
                        
                         PubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       22 Lappa, E. Undertaking an information-needs analysis of the emergency-care physician to inform the role of the clinical librarian: a Greek perspective. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2005, 22, 124– 32. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       23 Magrabi, F., Coiera, E. W., Westbrook, J. I., Gosling, A. S. &amp; Vickland, V. General practitioners’ use of online evidence during consultations. International Journal of Medical Informatics 2005, 74, 1– 12. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       24 McAlister, F. A., Graham, I., Karr, G. W. &amp; Laupacis, A. Evidence-based medicine and the practising clinician. Journal of General Internal Medicine 1999, 14, 236– 42. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       25 Oliveri, R. S., Gluud, C. &amp; Willie-Jørgensen, P. A. Hospital doctors’ self-rated skills in and use of evidence-based medicine: a questionnaire survey. Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice 2004, 10, 219– 26. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       26 Ram, F. S. F. &amp; Wellington, S. R. General practitioners use of the Cochrane Library in London. Primary Care Respiratory Journal 2002, 11, 123– 4. 
                        
                         CrossrefGoogle Scholar
                          
                       27 Ramos, K., Linscheid, R. &amp; Schafer, S. Real-time information-seeking behaviour of residency physicians. Family Medicine 2003, 35, 257– 60. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       28 Sackett, D. L. &amp; Strauss, S. E. Finding and applying evidence during clinical rounds: the ‘evidence cart’. Journal of the American Medical Association 1998, 280, 1336– 8. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       29 Schilling, L. M., Steiner, J. F., Lundahl, K. &amp; Anderson, R. J. Residents’ patient-specific clinical questions: opportunities for evidence-based learning. Academic Medicine 2005, 80, 51– 6. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       30 Schwartz, K., Northrup, J., Israel, N., Crowell, K., Lauder, N. &amp; Neale, A. V. Use of online evidence-based resources at the point of care. Family Medicine 2003, 35, 251– 6. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       31 Scott, I., Heyworth, R. &amp; Fairweather, P. The use of evidence-based medicine in the practice of consultant physicians. Results of a questionnaire survey. Australian and New Zealand Journal of Medicine 2000, 30, 319– 26. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       32 Swinglehurst, D. A., Pierce, M. &amp; Fuller, J. C. A. A clinical informaticist to support primary care decision making. Quality in Health Care 2001, 10, 245– 9. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       33 Veness, M., Rikard-Bell, G. &amp; Ward, J. Views of Australian and New Zealand radiation oncologists and registrars about evidence-based medicine and their access to Internet-based sources of evidence. Australasian Radiology 2003, 47, 409– 15. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       34 Wilson, P., Glanville, J. &amp; Watt, I. Access to the online evidence base in general practice: a survey of the Northern and Yorkshire Region. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2003, 20, 172– 8. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       35 Wong, K. &amp; Veness, M. J. Internet access, awareness and utilization of web-based evidence: a survey of Australian, New Zealand and Singaporean radiation oncology registrars. Asia-Pacific Journal of Clinical Oncology 2005, 1, 120– 7. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       36 Lor, P. J. The Information Needs of the General Practitioner: A Theoretical Model Based on an Analysis of the General Practitioner's Cognitive Environment. University of South Africa, 1979. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       37 Buckland, M. K. Library Services in Theory and Context, 2nd edn. Oxford: Pergamon, 1988. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       38 Wyatt, J. C. &amp; Sullivan, F. ABC of health informatics- keeping up: learning in the workplace. British Medical Journal 2005, 331, 1129– 32. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       39 Blenkinsopp, J. Appraising the literature. In: A. Booth &amp; G. Walton (eds) Exploiting Knowledge in Health Services. London: Facet Publishing, 2004: 204– 13. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       40 Shelstad, K. R. Information retrieval patterns and needs among practising general surgeons: a statewide experience. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1996, 84, 490– 7. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       41 Westbrook, J. I., Gosling, A. S. &amp; Coiera, E. Do clinicians use online evidence to support patient care? A study of 55&nbsp;000 clinicians. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 2004, 11, 113– 20. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       42 Darmoni, S. J., Benichou, J., Thirion, B., Hellot, M. F. &amp; Fuss, J. A study comparing centralized CD-ROM and decentralized intranet access to medline. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 2000, 88, 152– 6. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       43 Gorman, P. N., Yao, P. &amp; Seshadri, V. Finding the answers in primary care: information seeking by rural and non-rural clinicians. MEDINFO 2004, 11, 1133– 7. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       44 Dorsch, J. L. Information needs of rural health professionals: a review of the literature. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 2000, 88, 346– 54. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       45 Booth, A. Selecting Appropriate Resources. In: A. Booth &amp; G. Walton (eds) Managing, Knowledge in Health Services. London: Library Association, 2000: 206– 21. 
                        
                         Web of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       46 Holtum, E. A. Librarians, clinicians, evidence-based medicine, and the division of labour. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1999, 87, 404– 7. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       47 Koonce, T. Y., Giuse, N. B. &amp; Todd, P. Evidence-based databases versus primary medical literature: an in-house investigation on their optimal use. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 2004, 92, 407– 11. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       48 Line, M. B. Libraries and information services in 25 tears’ time: a British perspective. In: F. W. Lancaster (ed.) Libraries and the Future: Essays on the Library in the Twenty-First Century. New York: Haworth Press, 1993: 73– 83. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       49 Krahn, J., Sauerland, S., Rixen, D., Gregor, S., Bouillon, B. &amp; Neugebauer, E. A. M. Applying evidence-based surgery in daily clinical routine: a feasibility study. Archives of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery 2006, 126, 88– 92. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       50 Muir Gray, J. A. &amp; De Lusignam, S. National electronic Library for Health (NeLH). British Medical Journal 1999, 319, 1476– 9. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       51 Grandage, K. K., Slawson, D. C. &amp; Shaughnessy, A. F. When less is more: a practical approach to searching for evidence-based answers. Journal of the Medical Library Association 2002, 90, 298– 304. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       52 Verhoeven, A. A. H., Boerma, E. J. &amp; Meyboom-de Jong, B. Use of information sources by family physicians: a literature survey. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1995, 83, 85– 90. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       53 Sanders, S. &amp; Del Mer, C. Clever searching for evidence: new search filters can help to find the needle in the haystack. British Medical Journal 2005, 330, 1162– 3. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       54 Doney, L., Barlow, H. &amp; West, J. Use of libraries and electronic information resources by primary care staff: outcomes from a survey. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2005, 22, 182– 8. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       55 D’Alessandro, D. M., D’Alessandro, M. P., Galvin, J. R., Kash, J. B., Wakefield, D. S. &amp; Erkonen, W. E. Barriers to rural physician use of a digital health sciences library. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1998, 86, 583– 93. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       56 Erickson, S. &amp; Warner, E. R. The impact of an individual tutorial session on medline use among obstetrics and gynaecology residents in an academic training programme: a randomized trial. Medical Education 1998, 32, 269– 73. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       57 McKibbon, K. A. &amp; Walker-Dilks, C. J. The quality and impact of medline searches performed by end-users. Health Libraries Review 1995, 12, 191– 200. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       58 Davidoff, F. &amp; Florance, V. The informationist: a new health profession? Annals of Internal Medicine 2000, 132, 1085– 6. 
                        
                         CrossrefGoogle Scholar
                          
                       59 Tovey, D. &amp; Godlee, F. General practitioners say that evidence-based information is changing practice. British Medical Journal 2004, 329, 1043. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       60 Thompson, M. L. Characteristics of information resources preferred by primary care physicians. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1997, 85, 187– 92. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       61 Potter, B. &amp; Rotert, E. Making evidence-based practice a reality. Wisconsin Medical Journal 2005, 104, 22– 4. 
                        
                         PubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       62 Ely, J. W., Burch, R. J. &amp; Vinson, D. C. The information needs of family physicians: case-specific clinical questions. The Journal of Family Practice 1992, 35, 265– 9. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       63 McKibbon, K. A. Evidence-based practice. Bulletin of the Medical Library Association 1998, 86, 396– 401. 
                        
                         CASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       64 Coiera, E. &amp; Tombs, V. Communication behaviours in a hospital setting: an observational study. British Medical Journal 1998, 316, 673– 6. 
                        
                         CrossrefCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       65 Straus, S. E. Bringing evidence to the point of care. Evidence-Based Medicine 1999, 4, 70– 1. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       66 McAlearney, A. S., Schweikhart, S. B. &amp; Medow, M. A. Doctors’ experience with handheld computers in clinical practice: qualitative study. British Medical Journal 2004, 328, 1162– 5. 
                        
                         CrossrefPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       67 Honeybourne, C., Sutton, S. &amp; Ward, L. Knowledge in the palm of your hands: PDAs in the clinical setting. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2006, 23, 51– 9. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       68 Byrnes, J. A., Kulick, T. A. &amp; Schwartz, D. G. Information-seeking behaviour changes in community-based teaching practices. Journal of the Medical Library Association 2004, 92, 334– 40. 
                        
                         PubMedWeb of Science®Google Scholar
                          
                       69 Booth, A. Turning research priorities into answerable questions. Health Information and Libraries Journal 2001, 18, 130– 2. 
                        
                         Wiley Online LibraryCASPubMedGoogle Scholar
                          
                       70 NHS Executive Information for Health. An Information Strategy for the Modern NHS 1998–2005. A National Strategy for Local Implementation. 1998. Available from: http://www.medgraphics.cam.ac.uk/Downloads/IPU_0006.PDF (accessed 20 July 2006). 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       71 Houston, T. K. Clinical questions: new research on barriers and solutions to finding information. John Hopkins Advanced Studies in Medicine 2005, 5, 153– 4. 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       72 Griffiths, J. R. &amp; Brophy, P. Student searching behaviour in the JISC Information Environment. Ariadne 2002, 33. Available from: http://www.ariadne.ac.uk/issue33/edner/intro.html (accessed 30 March 2007). 
                        
                         Google Scholar
                          
                       
                      
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                   
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      
                       Citing Literature
                      
                     
                       
                       
                        
                         
                        
                        
                      
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                
               
               
                 
                 
                  
                 
                 
                  Volume24, Issue2
                  June 2007
                  Pages 78-94 
                  
                 
                 
                  
                    
                      
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                 
                 
                
                 
                  
                   Figures
                   References
                   Related
                   Information
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                      
                        
                     
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
             
              
               
                Close Figure Viewer
               
               
                Return to Figure
               
              
              
               
                
                 
                Previous FigureNext Figure
                
               
               
                
                 Caption
                
                
               
              
              
             
              Download PDF
              
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
         
          Additional links  
         
          
            
             
             About Wiley Online Library 
              
              Privacy Policy 
              Terms of Use 
              Cookies 
              Accessibility 
              Publishing Policies 
              
             
           
            
             
             Help &amp; Support 
              
              Contact Us 
              Training and Support 
              DMCA &amp; Reporting Piracy 
              
             
           
            
             
             Opportunities 
              
              Subscription Agents 
              Advertisers &amp; Corporate Partners 
              
             
           
            
             
             Connect with Wiley 
              
              The Wiley Network 
              Wiley Press Room 
              
             
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              Copyright © 1999-2022 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. All rights reserved
              
             
              
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
      
     
     The full text of this article hosted at iucr.org is unavailable due to technical difficulties.  
     
     
         
       
        
         
        
       
       
        
        
       Log in to Wiley Online Library 
        
        
          
          
          
          
          
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
           
           
          
          
           Password 
           
            
          
           Forgot password?  
          
          
          
             
         
         
         
         
        
         NEW USER &gt;   INSTITUTIONAL LOGIN &gt;  
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
        
       Change Password 
       
       
        
        
          
          
          
           Old Password 
           
            
          
          
           New Password 
           
            
           Too Short Weak Medium Strong Very Strong Too Long 
           
          
         
          
        
        
        Password Changed Successfully 
        Your password has been changed 
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
        
       Create a new account 
       
       
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
          
        
        
         Returning user  
        
       
      
     
     
      
        
        
         
        
       Forgot your password? 
       Enter your email address below.  
       
       
        
       
         
         
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
          
         
         
         
         
          
        
        
        
        Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. 
        
       
      
     
    
     
     
      
      
      Request Username 
       
       Can't sign in? Forgot your username? 
       Enter your email address below and we will send you your username 
        
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
         
         
         Close 
        
        
       
       
       If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username 
       
      
      
     
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
