
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
      
   
   
    
     
   
      
   
   
   
     
    
       Information search process of lawyers: a call for ’just for me’ information services
 |  Emerald Insight 
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
   
    
    
   
   
    
      
     
     
      
       
        Books and journals Case studies Expert Briefings Open Access 
        
       
      
     
      
       
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
      
        
        
       
       
        Advanced search 
        
       
      
     
      
     
     
      
        
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
       
        
         
         To read the full version of this content please select one of the options below: 
          
           
             
            
              Other access options   
             
              
               
                You may be able to access this content by logging in via your Emerald profile. 
                
                 Login   
                
               
               
                Rent this content from DeepDyve 
                
                 Rent from DeepDyve   
                
               
               
                If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team. 
                
                 Contact us   
                
               
              
             
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
         Please note you do not have access to teaching notes 
          
           
             
            
              Other access options   
             
              
               
                You may be able to access teaching notes by logging in via your Emerald profile. 
                
                 Login   
                
               
               
                If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team. 
                
                 Contact us   
                
               
              
             
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        Information search process of lawyers: a call for ’just for me’ information services 
          C.C. Kuhlthau 
            (School of Communication, Information and Library Studies, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08903)
         S.L. Tama 
            (School of Communication, Information and Library Studies, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08903)
        " contrib-count="2" affil-count="2"> 
          
           
             C.C. Kuhlthau  (School of Communication, Information and Library Studies, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08903) 
           
           
             S.L. Tama  (School of Communication, Information and Library Studies, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08903) 
            
          
         
         
          
           Journal of Documentation  
            ISSN: 0022-0418   
           Article publication date: 1 February 2001  
             
               
          
          
           
           Downloads 
              3627  
            
           
            
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        Abstract 
         
          
          
          The study reported in this paper is part of a programme of ongoing research based on the model of the Information Search Process (ISP) developed in a series of prior studies by Kuhlthau. This study sought to gain a better understanding of the variety of tasks that involve lawyers as a particular group of information workers, how they use information to accomplish their work, and the role mediators play in their process of information seeking and use. Findings revealed that these lawyers frequently were involved in complex tasks that required a constructive process of interpreting, learning and creating. To accomplish these complex tasks, they preferred printed texts over computer databases primarily because computer databases required well‐specified requests and did not offer an option for examining a wide range of information at one time. These lawyers called for an active potential role for mediators in ‘just for me’ services. ‘Just for me’ services would encompass designing systems to provide a wider range of access more compatible with the process of construction, applying and developing principles of classification that would offer a more uniform system for organising and accessing files, and providing direction in filtering the overwhelming amount of information available on electronic resources. 
          
         
        
        
        Keywords 
         
          Information retrieval 
          Research 
          Lawyers 
         
        
        
        Citation 
         Kuhlthau, C.C. and Tama, S.L. (2001), "Information search process of lawyers: a call for ’just for me’ information services", Journal of Documentation, Vol. 57 No. 1, pp. 25-43. https://doi.org/10.1108/EUM0000000007076  
          
         
        
        
        Publisher: 
        MCB UP Ltd 
        
        Copyright © 2001, MCB UP Limited  
       
       
        
       
      
     
     
    
     
      
       
        
        
         
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
         
        
       
        © 2022 Emerald Publishing Limited
        
       
       
       Services 
        
        Authors Opens in new window 
        Editors Opens in new window 
        Librarians Opens in new window 
        Researchers Opens in new window 
        Reviewers Opens in new window 
        
       
       
       About 
        
        About Emerald Opens in new window 
        Working for Emerald Opens in new window 
        Contact us Opens in new window 
        Publication sitemap 
        
       
       
       Policies and information 
        
        Privacy notice 
        Site policies 
        Modern Slavery Act Opens in new window 
        Chair of Trustees governance statement Opens in new window 
        COVID-19 policy Opens in new window 
        Accessibility 
        
       
      
     
    
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     ×  
    
    
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
      Support &amp; Feedback  
        Manage cookies  
    
    
     
      
       
       We’re listening — tell us what you think 
        
         Something didn’t work… Report bugs here  
         All feedback is valuable Please share your general feedback  
         Member of Emerald Engage? You can join in the discussion by joining the community or logging in here.You can also find out more about Emerald Engage.  
        
       
       
       Join us on our journey 
        
         Platform update page Visit emeraldpublishing.com/platformupdate to discover the latest news and updates  
         Questions &amp; More Information Answers to the most commonly asked questions here  
        
       
      
     
    
   
   
   
   
    
 
