
 
  
   
  Microeconomics - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Microeconomics 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Behavior of individuals and firms
       
      
      
       Further information: History of microeconomics
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Economics
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches and classifications
           
            
            
             Schools of economics 
             Mainstream economics 
             Heterodox economics 
             Economic methodology 
             Economic theory 
             Political economy 
             Microeconomics 
             Macroeconomics 
             International economics 
             Applied economics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Econometrics 
             JEL classification codes
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts, theory and techniques
           
            
            
             Economic systems 
             Economic growth 
             Market 
             National accounting 
             Experimental economics 
             Computational economics 
             Game theory 
             Operations research 
             Middle income trap 
             Industrial complex
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By application
           
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Behavioral 
             Business 
             Cultural 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Digitization 
             Ecological 
             Economic geography 
             Economic history 
             Economic planning 
             Economic policy 
             Economic sociology 
             Economic statistics 
             Education 
             Engineering 
             Environmental 
             Evolutionary 
             Expeditionary 
             Feminist 
             Financial 
             Happiness economics 
             Health 
             Humanistic economics 
             Industrial organization 
             Information 
             Institutional 
             Knowledge 
             Labour 
             Law 
             Managerial 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Organizational 
             Personnel 
             Public economics 
             Public&nbsp;/ Social choice 
             Regional 
             Rural 
             Service 
             Socioeconomics 
             Solidarity economy 
             Urban 
             Welfare 
             Welfare economics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable economists
           
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             John Stuart Mill 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Irving Fisher 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             John Hicks 
             Wassily Leontief 
             Paul Samuelson 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Critique of economy
           
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Assume a can opener
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable critics of economy
           
            
            
             Karl Marx 
             John Ruskin 
             Jean Baudrillard 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Glossary 
             Economists 
             Publications&nbsp;(journals)
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and Economics portal 
           &nbsp;Money portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Microeconomics analyzes the market mechanisms that enable buyers and sellers to establish relative prices among goods and services. Shown is a marketplace in Delhi.
        
       
       
      Microeconomics is a branch of mainstream economics that studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of scarce resources and the interactions among these individuals and firms. Microeconomics focuses on the study of individual markets, sectors, or industries as opposed to the national economy as whole, which is studied in macroeconomics. 
      One goal of microeconomics is to analyze the market mechanisms that establish relative prices among goods and services and allocate limited resources among alternative uses. Microeconomics shows conditions under which free markets lead to desirable allocations. It also analyzes market failure, where markets fail to produce efficient results. 
      While microeconomics focuses on firms and individuals, macroeconomics focuses on the sum total of economic activity, dealing with the issues of growth, inflation, and unemployment and with national policies relating to these issues. Microeconomics also deals with the effects of economic policies (such as changing taxation levels) on microeconomic behavior and thus on the aforementioned aspects of the economy. Particularly in the wake of the Lucas critique, much of modern macroeconomic theories has been built upon microfoundations—i.e. based upon basic assumptions about micro-level behavior.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Assumptions and definitions 
        2 History 
        3 Microeconomic theory 
          
          3.1 Consumer demand theory 
          3.2 Production theory 
          3.3 Cost-of-production theory of value 
          3.4 Opportunity cost 
          3.5 Price Theory 
           
        4 Microeconomic models 
          
          4.1 Supply and demand 
           
        5 Market structure 
          
          5.1 Perfect competition 
          5.2 Imperfect competition 
          5.3 Monopolistic competition 
          5.4 Monopoly 
          5.5 Oligopoly 
          5.6 Monopsony 
          5.7 Bilateral monopoly 
          5.8 Oligopsony 
           
        6 Game theory 
        7 Economics of information 
        8 Applied 
        9 See also 
        10 References 
        11 Further reading 
        12 External links 
        
       
      Assumptions and definitions 
      The word microeconomics derives from the Greek words μικρό (small, minor) and οικονομία (economy). Microeconomic study historically has been performed according to general equilibrium theory, developed by Léon Walras in Elements of Pure Economics (1874) and partial equilibrium theory, introduced by Alfred Marshall in Principles of Economics (1890). 
      Microeconomic theory typically begins with the study of a single rational and utility maximizing individual. To economists, rationality means an individual possesses stable preferences that are both complete and transitive. 
      The technical assumption that preference relations are continuous is needed to ensure the existence of a utility function. Although microeconomic theory can continue without this assumption, it would make comparative statics impossible since there is no guarantee that the resulting utility function would be differentiable. 
      Microeconomic theory progresses by defining a competitive budget set which is a subset of the consumption set. It is at this point that economists make the technical assumption that preferences are locally non-satiated. Without the assumption of LNS (local non-satiation) there is no 100% guarantee but there would be a rational rise in individual utility. With the necessary tools and assumptions in place the utility maximization problem (UMP) is developed. 
      The utility maximization problem is the heart of consumer theory. The utility maximization problem attempts to explain the action axiom by imposing rationality axioms on consumer preferences and then mathematically modeling and analyzing the consequences. The utility maximization problem serves not only as the mathematical foundation of consumer theory but as a metaphysical explanation of it as well. That is, the utility maximization problem is used by economists to not only explain what or how individuals make choices but why individuals make choices as well. 
      The utility maximization problem is a constrained optimization problem in which an individual seeks to maximize utility subject to a budget constraint. Economists use the extreme value theorem to guarantee that a solution to the utility maximization problem exists. That is, since the budget constraint is both bounded and closed, a solution to the utility maximization problem exists. Economists call the solution to the utility maximization problem a Walrasian demand function or correspondence. 
      The utility maximization problem has so far been developed by taking consumer tastes (i.e. consumer utility) as the primitive. However, an alternative way to develop microeconomic theory is by taking consumer choice as the primitive. This model of microeconomic theory is referred to as revealed preference theory.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The supply and demand model describes how prices vary as a result of a balance between product availability at each price (supply) and the desires of those with purchasing power at each price (demand). The graph depicts a right-shift in demand from D1 to D2 along with the consequent increase in price and quantity required to reach a new market-clearing equilibrium point on the supply curve (S).
        
       
       
      The theory of supply and demand usually assumes that markets are perfectly competitive. This implies that there are many buyers and sellers in the market and none of them have the capacity to significantly influence prices of goods and services. In many real-life transactions, the assumption fails because some individual buyers or sellers have the ability to influence prices. Quite often, a sophisticated analysis is required to understand the demand-supply equation of a good model. However, the theory works well in situations meeting these assumptions. 
      Mainstream economics does not assume a priori that markets are preferable to other forms of social organization. In fact, much analysis is devoted to cases where market failures lead to resource allocation that is suboptimal and creates deadweight loss. A classic example of suboptimal resource allocation is that of a public good. In such cases, economists may attempt to find policies that avoid waste, either directly by government control, indirectly by regulation that induces market participants to act in a manner consistent with optimal welfare, or by creating "missing markets" to enable efficient trading where none had previously existed. 
      This is studied in the field of collective action and public choice theory. "Optimal welfare" usually takes on a Paretian norm, which is a mathematical application of the Kaldor–Hicks method. This can diverge from the Utilitarian goal of maximizing utility because it does not consider the distribution of goods between people. Market failure in positive economics (microeconomics) is limited in implications without mixing the belief of the economist and their theory. 
      The demand for various commodities by individuals is generally thought of as the outcome of a utility-maximizing process, with each individual trying to maximize their own utility under a budget constraint and a given consumption set.  
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of microeconomics
       
      Economists commonly consider themselves microeconomists or macroeconomists. The difference between microeconomics and macroeconomics likely was introduced in 1933 by the Norwegian economist Ragnar Frisch, the co-recipient of the first Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1969. However, Frisch did not actually use the word "microeconomics", instead drawing distinctions between "micro-dynamic" and "macro-dynamic" analysis in a way similar to how the words "microeconomics" and "macroeconomics" are used today. The first known use of the term "microeconomics" in a published article was from Pieter de Wolff in 1941, who broadened the term "micro-dynamics" into "microeconomics".  
      Microeconomic theory 
      Consumer demand theory 
      
      
       Main article: Consumer choice
       
      Consumer demand theory relates preferences for the consumption of both goods and services to the consumption expenditures; ultimately, this relationship between preferences and consumption expenditures is used to relate preferences to consumer demand curves. The link between personal preferences, consumption and the demand curve is one of the most closely studied relations in economics. It is a way of analyzing how consumers may achieve equilibrium between preferences and expenditures by maximizing utility subject to consumer budget constraints.  
      Production theory 
      
      
       Main article: Production theory
       
      Production theory is the study of production, or the economic process of converting inputs into outputs. Production uses resources to create a good or service that is suitable for use, gift-giving in a gift economy, or exchange in a market economy. This can include manufacturing, storing, shipping, and packaging. Some economists define production broadly as all economic activity other than consumption. They see every commercial activity other than the final purchase as some form of production.  
      Cost-of-production theory of value 
      
      
       Main article: Cost-of-production theory of value
       
      The cost-of-production theory of value states that the price of an object or condition is determined by the sum of the cost of the resources that went into making it. The cost can comprise any of the factors of production (including labor, capital, or land) and taxation. Technology can be viewed either as a form of fixed capital (e.g. an industrial plant) or circulating capital (e.g. intermediate goods). 
      In the mathematical model for the cost of production, the short-run total cost is equal to fixed cost plus total variable cost. The fixed cost refers to the cost that is incurred regardless of how much the firm produces. The variable cost is a function of the quantity of an object being produced. The cost function can be used to characterize production through the duality theory in economics, developed mainly by Ronald Shephard (1953, 1970) and other scholars (Sickles &amp; Zelenyuk, 2019, ch.2).  
      Opportunity cost 
      
      
       Main article: Opportunity cost
       
      Opportunity cost is closely related to the idea of time constraints. One can do only one thing at a time, which means that, inevitably, one is always giving up other things. The opportunity cost of any activity is the value of the next-best alternative thing one may have done instead. Opportunity cost depends only on the value of the next-best alternative. It doesn't matter whether one has five alternatives or 5,000. 
      Opportunity costs can tell when not to do something as well as when to do something. For example, one may like waffles, but like chocolate even more. If someone offers only waffles, one would take it. But if offered waffles or chocolate, one would take the chocolate. The opportunity cost of eating waffles is sacrificing the chance to eat chocolate. Because the cost of not eating the chocolate is higher than the benefits of eating the waffles, it makes no sense to choose waffles. Of course, if one chooses chocolate, they are still faced with the opportunity cost of giving up having waffles. But one is willing to do that because the waffle's opportunity cost is lower than the benefits of the chocolate. Opportunity costs are unavoidable constraints on behaviour because one has to decide what's best and give up the next-best alternative.  
      Price Theory 
      Price theory is a field of economics that uses the supply and demand framework to explain and predict human behavior. It is associated with the Chicago School of Economics. Price theory studies competitive equilibrium in markets to yield testable hypotheses that can be rejected. 
      Price theory is not the same as microeconomics. Strategic behavior, such as the interactions among sellers in a market where they are few, is a significant part of microeconomics but is not emphasized in price theory. Price theorists focus on competition believing it to be a reasonable description of most markets that leaves room to study additional aspects of tastes and technology. As a result, price theory tends to use less game theory than microeconomics does. 
      Price theory focuses on how agents respond to prices, but its framework can be applied to a wide variety of socioeconomic issues that might not seem to involve prices at first glance. Price theorists have influenced several other fields including developing public choice theory and law and economics. Price theory has been applied to issues previously thought of as outside the purview of economics such as criminal justice, marriage, and addiction.  
      Microeconomic models 
      Supply and demand 
      
      
       Main article: Supply and demand
       
      Supply and demand is an economic model of price determination in a perfectly competitive market. It concludes that in a perfectly competitive market with no externalities, per unit taxes, or price controls, the unit price for a particular good is the price at which the quantity demanded by consumers equals the quantity supplied by producers. This price results in a stable economic equilibrium.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The supply and demand model describes how prices vary as a result of a balance between product availability and demand. The graph depicts an increase (that is, right-shift) in demand from D1 to D2 along with the consequent increase in price and quantity required to reach a new equilibrium point on the supply curve (S).
        
       
       
      Prices and quantities have been described as the most directly observable attributes of goods produced and exchanged in a market economy. The theory of supply and demand is an organizing principle for explaining how prices coordinate the amounts produced and consumed. In microeconomics, it applies to price and output determination for a market with perfect competition, which includes the condition of no buyers or sellers large enough to have price-setting power. 
      For a given market of a commodity, demand is the relation of the quantity that all buyers would be prepared to purchase at each unit price of the good. Demand is often represented by a table or a graph showing price and quantity demanded (as in the figure). Demand theory describes individual consumers as rationally choosing the most preferred quantity of each good, given income, prices, tastes, etc. A term for this is "constrained utility maximization" (with income and wealth as the constraints on demand). Here, utility refers to the hypothesized relation of each individual consumer for ranking different commodity bundles as more or less preferred. 
      The law of demand states that, in general, price and quantity demanded in a given market are inversely related. That is, the higher the price of a product, the less of it people would be prepared to buy (other things unchanged). As the price of a commodity falls, consumers move toward it from relatively more expensive goods (the substitution effect). In addition, purchasing power from the price decline increases ability to buy (the income effect). Other factors can change demand; for example an increase in income will shift the demand curve for a normal good outward relative to the origin, as in the figure. All determinants are predominantly taken as constant factors of demand and supply. 
      Supply is the relation between the price of a good and the quantity available for sale at that price. It may be represented as a table or graph relating price and quantity supplied. Producers, for example business firms, are hypothesized to be profit maximizers, meaning that they attempt to produce and supply the amount of goods that will bring them the highest profit. Supply is typically represented as a function relating price and quantity, if other factors are unchanged. 
      That is, the higher the price at which the good can be sold, the more of it producers will supply, as in the figure. The higher price makes it profitable to increase production. Just as on the demand side, the position of the supply can shift, say from a change in the price of a productive input or a technical improvement. The "Law of Supply" states that, in general, a rise in price leads to an expansion in supply and a fall in price leads to a contraction in supply. Here as well, the determinants of supply, such as price of substitutes, cost of production, technology applied and various factors of inputs of production are all taken to be constant for a specific time period of evaluation of supply. 
      Market equilibrium occurs where quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, the intersection of the supply and demand curves in the figure above. At a price below equilibrium, there is a shortage of quantity supplied compared to quantity demanded. This is posited to bid the price up. At a price above equilibrium, there is a surplus of quantity supplied compared to quantity demanded. This pushes the price down. The model of supply and demand predicts that for given supply and demand curves, price and quantity will stabilize at the price that makes quantity supplied equal to quantity demanded. Similarly, demand-and-supply theory predicts a new price-quantity combination from a shift in demand (as to the figure), or in supply. 
      For a given quantity of a consumer good, the point on the demand curve indicates the value, or marginal utility, to consumers for that unit. It measures what the consumer would be prepared to pay for that unit. The corresponding point on the supply curve measures marginal cost, the increase in total cost to the supplier for the corresponding unit of the good. The price in equilibrium is determined by supply and demand. In a perfectly competitive market, supply and demand equate marginal cost and marginal utility at equilibrium. 
      On the supply side of the market, some factors of production are described as (relatively) variable in the short run, which affects the cost of changing output levels. Their usage rates can be changed easily, such as electrical power, raw-material inputs, and over-time and temp work. Other inputs are relatively fixed, such as plant and equipment and key personnel. In the long run, all inputs may be adjusted by management. These distinctions translate to differences in the elasticity (responsiveness) of the supply curve in the short and long runs and corresponding differences in the price-quantity change from a shift on the supply or demand side of the market. 
      Marginalist theory, such as above, describes the consumers as attempting to reach most-preferred positions, subject to income and wealth constraints while producers attempt to maximize profits subject to their own constraints, including demand for goods produced, technology, and the price of inputs. For the consumer, that point comes where marginal utility of a good, net of price, reaches zero, leaving no net gain from further consumption increases. Analogously, the producer compares marginal revenue (identical to price for the perfect competitor) against the marginal cost of a good, with marginal profit the difference. At the point where marginal profit reaches zero, further increases in production of the good stop. For movement to market equilibrium and for changes in equilibrium, price and quantity also change "at the margin": more-or-less of something, rather than necessarily all-or-nothing. 
      Other applications of demand and supply include the distribution of income among the factors of production, including labour and capital, through factor markets. In a competitive labour market for example the quantity of labour employed and the price of labour (the wage rate) depends on the demand for labour (from employers for production) and supply of labour (from potential workers). Labour economics examines the interaction of workers and employers through such markets to explain patterns and changes of wages and other labour income, labour mobility, and (un)employment, productivity through human capital, and related public-policy issues. 
      Demand-and-supply analysis is used to explain the behaviour of perfectly competitive markets, but as a standard of comparison it can be extended to any type of market. It can also be generalized to explain variables across the economy, for example, total output (estimated as real GDP) and the general price level, as studied in macroeconomics. Tracing the qualitative and quantitative effects of variables that change supply and demand, whether in the short or long run, is a standard exercise in applied economics. Economic theory may also specify conditions such that supply and demand through the market is an efficient mechanism for allocating resources.  
      Market structure 
      
      
       Main article: Market structure
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Market structure refers to features of a market, including the number of firms in the market, the distribution of market shares between them, product uniformity across firms, how easy it is for firms to enter and exit the market, and forms of competition in the market. A market structure can have several types of interacting market systems. Different forms of markets are a feature of capitalism and market socialism, with advocates of state socialism often criticizing markets and aiming to substitute or replace markets with varying degrees of government-directed economic planning. 
      Competition acts as a regulatory mechanism for market systems, with government providing regulations where the market cannot be expected to regulate itself. Regulations help to mitigate negative externalities of goods and services when the private equilibrium of the market does not match the social equilibrium. One example of this is with regards to building codes, which if absent in a purely competition regulated market system, might result in several horrific injuries or deaths to be required before companies would begin improving structural safety, as consumers may at first not be as concerned or aware of safety issues to begin putting pressure on companies to provide them, and companies would be motivated not to provide proper safety features due to how it would cut into their profits. 
      The concept of "market type" is different from the concept of "market structure". Nevertheless, it is worth noting here that there are a variety of types of markets. 
      The different market structures produce cost curves based on the type of structure present. The different curves are developed based on the costs of production, specifically the graph contains marginal cost, average total cost, average variable cost, average fixed cost, and marginal revenue, which is sometimes equal to the demand, average revenue, and price in a price-taking firm.  
      Perfect competition 
      
      
       Main article: Perfect competition
       
      Perfect competition is a situation in which numerous small firms producing identical products compete against each other in a given industry. Perfect competition leads to firms producing the socially optimal output level at the minimum possible cost per unit. Firms in perfect competition are "price takers" (they do not have enough market power to profitably increase the price of their goods or services). A good example would be that of digital marketplaces, such as eBay, on which many different sellers sell similar products to many different buyers. Consumers in a perfect competitive market have perfect knowledge about the products that are being sold in this market.  
      Imperfect competition 
      
      
       Main article: Imperfect competition
       
      Imperfect competition is a type of market structure showing some but not all features of competitive markets.  
      Monopolistic competition 
      
      
       Main article: Monopolistic competition
       
      Monopolistic competition is a situation in which many firms with slightly different products compete. Production costs are above what may be achieved by perfectly competitive firms, but society benefits from the product differentiation. Examples of industries with market structures similar to monopolistic competition include restaurants, cereal, clothing, shoes, and service industries in large cities.  
      Monopoly 
      
      
       Main article: Monopoly
       
      A monopoly is a market structure in which a market or industry is dominated by a single supplier of a particular good or service. Because monopolies have no competition, they tend to sell goods and services at a higher price and produce below the socially optimal output level. However, not all monopolies are a bad thing, especially in industries where multiple firms would result in more costs than benefits (i.e. natural monopolies).  
      
       Natural monopoly: A monopoly in an industry where one producer can produce output at a lower cost than many small producers.
       
      Oligopoly 
      
      
       Main article: Oligopoly
       
      An oligopoly is a market structure in which a market or industry is dominated by a small number of firms (oligopolists). Oligopolies can create the incentive for firms to engage in collusion and form cartels that reduce competition leading to higher prices for consumers and less overall market output. Alternatively, oligopolies can be fiercely competitive and engage in flamboyant advertising campaigns.  
      
       Duopoly: A special case of an oligopoly, with only two firms. Game theory can elucidate behavior in duopolies and oligopolies.
       
      Monopsony 
      
      
       Main article: Monopsony
       
      A monopsony is a market where there is only one buyer and many sellers.  
      Bilateral monopoly 
      
      
       Main article: Bilateral monopoly
       
      A bilateral monopoly is a market consisting of both a monopoly (a single seller) and a monopsony (a single buyer).  
      Oligopsony 
      
      
       Main article: Oligopsony
       
      An oligopsony is a market where there are a few buyers and many sellers.  
      Game theory 
      
      
       Main article: Game theory
       
      Game theory is a major method used in mathematical economics and business for modeling competing behaviors of interacting agents. The term "game" here implies the study of any strategic interaction between people. Applications include a wide array of economic phenomena and approaches, such as auctions, bargaining, mergers &amp; acquisitions pricing, fair division, duopolies, oligopolies, social network formation, agent-based computational economics, general equilibrium, mechanism design, and voting systems, and across such broad areas as experimental economics, behavioral economics, information economics, industrial organization, and political economy.  
      Economics of information 
      
      
       Main article: Information economics
       
      Information economics is a branch of microeconomic theory that studies how information and information systems affect an economy and economic decisions. Information has special characteristics. It is easy to create but hard to trust. It is easy to spread but hard to control. It influences many decisions. These special characteristics (as compared with other types of goods) complicate many standard economic theories. The economics of information has recently become of great interest to many - possibly due to the rise of information-based companies inside the technology industry. From a game theory approach, we can loosen the usual constraints that agents have complete information to further examine the consequences of having incomplete information. This gives rise to many results which are applicable to real life situations. For example, if one does loosen this assumption, then it is possible to scrutinize the actions of agents in situations of uncertainty. It is also possible to more fully understand the impacts – both positive and negative – of agents seeking out or acquiring information.  
      Applied 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         United States Capitol Building: meeting place of the United States Congress, where many tax laws are passed, which directly impact economic welfare. This is studied in the subject of public economics.
        
       
       
      Applied microeconomics includes a range of specialized areas of study, many of which draw on methods from other fields.  
      
       Economic history examines the evolution of the economy and economic institutions, using methods and techniques from the fields of economics, history, geography, sociology, psychology, and political science. 
       Education economics examines the organization of education provision and its implication for efficiency and equity, including the effects of education on productivity. 
       Financial economics examines topics such as the structure of optimal portfolios, the rate of return to capital, econometric analysis of security returns, and corporate financial behavior. 
       Health economics examines the organization of health care systems, including the role of the health care workforce and health insurance programs. 
       Industrial organization examines topics such as the entry and exit of firms, innovation, and the role of trademarks. 
       Law and economics applies microeconomic principles to the selection and enforcement of competing legal regimes and their relative efficiencies. 
       Political economy examines the role of political institutions in determining policy outcomes. 
       Public economics examines the design of government tax and expenditure policies and economic effects of these policies (e.g., social insurance programs). 
       Urban economics, which examines the challenges faced by cities, such as sprawl, air and water pollution, traffic congestion, and poverty, draws on the fields of urban geography and sociology. 
       Labor economics examines primarily labor markets, but comprises a large range of public policy issues such as immigration, minimum wages, or inequality.
       
      See also 
      
       Economics 
       Macroeconomics 
       Critique of political economy
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Marchant, Mary A.; Snell, William M. "Macroeconomics and International Policy Terms" (PDF). University of Kentucky. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2007-03-18. Retrieved 2007-05-04.  
        ^ a b 
          "Economics Glossary". Monroe County Women's Disability Network. Archived from the original on 2008-02-04. Retrieved 2008-02-22.  
        ^ 
          "Social Studies Standards Glossary". New Mexico Public Education Department. Archived from the original on 2007-08-08. Retrieved 2008-02-22.  
        ^ 
          "Glossary". ECON100. Archived from the original on 2006-04-11. Retrieved 2008-02-22.  
        ^ a b Frisch, R. 1933. Propagation problems and impulse problems in dynamic economics. In Economic essays in honour of Gustav Cassel, ed. R. Frisch. London: Allen &amp; Unwin.  
        ^ a b c d Varian H.R. (1987) Microeconomics. In: Palgrave Macmillan (eds) The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. Palgrave Macmillan, London.  
        ^ 
          Varian, Hal R. (1987). "Microeconomics". The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. pp.&nbsp;1–5. doi:10.1057/978-1-349-95121-5_1212-1. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-349-95121-5.  
        ^ 
          De Wolff, Pieter (April 1941). "Income Elasticity of Demand, a Micro-Economic and a Macro-Economic Interpretation". The Economic Journal. 51 (201): 140–145. doi:10.2307/2225666. JSTOR&nbsp;2225666.  
        ^ Sickles, R., &amp; Zelenyuk, V. (2019). Measurement of Productivity and Efficiency: Theory and Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781139565981   
        ^ 
          Brody, A. (1987). "Prices and quantities". In Eatwell, John; Milgate, Murray; Newman, Peter (eds.). The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics (first&nbsp;ed.). pp.&nbsp;1–7. doi:10.1057/9780230226203.3325. ISBN&nbsp;9780333786765.  
        ^ 
          Baumol, William J. (28 April 2016). "Utility and Value". Encyclopædia Britannica.  
        ^ 
          Hicks, J.R. (2001) . Value and Capital: An Inquiry into Some Fundamental Principles of Economic Theory (second&nbsp;ed.). London: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-828269-3.  
        ^ • 
          Freeman, Richard B. (1987). "Labour economics". In Eatwell, John; Milgate, Murray; Newman, Peter (eds.). The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics (first&nbsp;ed.). pp.&nbsp;1–7. doi:10.1057/9780230226203.2907. ISBN&nbsp;9780333786765.&nbsp;&nbsp; • 
          Taber, Christopher; Weinberg, Bruce A. (2008). "Labour economics (new perspectives)". In Durlauf, Steven N.; Blume, Lawrence E. (eds.). The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics (second&nbsp;ed.). Palgrave Macmillan UK. pp.&nbsp;787–791. doi:10.1057/9780230226203.0914. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-333-78676-5.&nbsp;&nbsp; • 
          Hicks, John R. (1963) . The Theory of Wages (second&nbsp;ed.). Macmillan.  
        ^ 
          Blanchard, Olivier (2006). "Chapter 7: Putting All Markets Together: The AS–AD Model". Macroeconomics (4th&nbsp;ed.). Prentice-Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-1318-6026-1.  
        ^ 
          Jordan, J.S. (October 1982). "The Competitive Allocation Process Is Informationally Efficient Uniquely". Journal of Economic Theory. 28 (1): 1–18. doi:10.1016/0022-0531(82)90088-6.  
        ^ 
          McEachern, William A. (2006). Economics: A Contemporary Introduction. Thomson South-Western. pp.&nbsp;166. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-324-28860-5.  
        ^ 
          Hashimzade, Nigar; Myles, Gareth; Black, John (2017). "market structure". A Dictionary of Economics. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-875943-0.  
        ^ 
          Emerson, Patrick M. (2019-10-28), "Module 8: Cost Curves", Intermediate Microeconomics, Oregon State University, retrieved 2021-05-13  
        ^ 
          "Monopoly - Economics Help". Economics Help. Archived from the original on 2018-03-14. Retrieved 2018-03-14.  
        ^ 
          Krylovskiy, Nikolay (20 January 2020). "Natural monopolies". Economics Online. Retrieved 2020-09-03.  
        ^ 
          "Competition Counts". ftstatus=live. 11 June 2013. Archived from the original on 4 December 2013.  
        ^ 
          Erickson, Gary M. (2009). "Gary M. Erickson (2009). "An Oligopoly Model of Dynamic Advertising Competition". European Journal of Operational Research 197 (2009): 374-388". European Journal of Operational Research. 197 (1): 374–388. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2008.06.023.  
        ^  
          "Oligopoly/Duopoly and Game Theory". AP Microeconomics Review. 2017. Archived from the original on 2016-06-25. Retrieved 2017-06-11. Game theory is the main way economists  understands the behavior of firms within this market structure.  
        ^ • Beth Allen, 1990. "Information as an Economic Commodity," American Economic Review, 80(2), pp. 268–273.&nbsp;&nbsp;• Kenneth J. Arrow, 1999. "Information and the Organization of Industry," ch. 1, in Graciela Chichilnisky Markets, Information, and Uncertainty. Cambridge University Press, pp. 20–21.&nbsp;&nbsp; • _____, 1996. "The Economics of Information: An Exposition," Empirica, 23(2), pp.&nbsp;119–128.&nbsp;&nbsp; • _____, 1984. Collected Papers of Kenneth J. Arrow, v. 4, The Economics of Information. Description Archived 2012-03-30 at the Wayback Machine and chapter-preview links.&nbsp;&nbsp; • Jean-Jacques Laffont, 1989. The Economics of Uncertainty and Information, MIT Press. Description Archived 2012-01-25 at the Wayback Machine and chapter-preview links.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
      
       * 
       Bade, Robin; Michael Parkin (2001). Foundations of Microeconomics. Addison Wesley Paperback 1st Edition. 
       
        
         Editors, biography.com (August 17, 2016). "Adam Smith Biography.com". A&amp;E Television Networks. }: |last= has generic name (help) 
        Bouman, John: Principles of Microeconomics – free fully comprehensive Principles of Microeconomics and Macroeconomics texts. Columbia, Maryland, 2011 
        Colander, David. Microeconomics. McGraw-Hill Paperback, 7th Edition: 2008. 
        
         Dunne, Timothy; J. Bradford Jensen; Mark J. Roberts (2009). Producer Dynamics: New Evidence from Micro Data. University of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-17256-9. 
        Eaton, B. Curtis; Eaton, Diane F.; and Douglas W. Allen. Microeconomics. Prentice Hall, 5th Edition: 2002. 
        Erickson, Gary M. (2009). “An Oligopoly Model of Dynamic Advertising Competition“. European Journal of Operational Research 197 (2009): 374-388. https://econpapers.repec.org/article/eeeejores/v_3a197_3ay_3a2009_3ai_3a1_3ap_3a374-388.htm 
        Frank, Robert H.; Microeconomics and Behavior. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 6th Edition: 2006. 
        Friedman, Milton. Price Theory. Aldine Transaction: 1976 
        Hagendorf, Klaus: Labour Values and the Theory of the Firm. Part I: The Competitive Firm. Paris: EURODOS; 2009. 
        
         Harnerger, Arnold C. (2008). "Microeconomics". In David R. Henderson (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Indianapolis: Library of Economics and Liberty. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-86597-665-8. OCLC&nbsp;237794267. 
        Hicks, John R. Value and Capital. Clarendon Press.  1946, 2nd ed. 
        Hirshleifer, Jack., Glazer, Amihai, and Hirshleifer, David, Price theory and applications: Decisions, markets, and information. Cambridge University Press, 7th Edition: 2005. 
        Jaffe, Sonia; Minton, Robert; Mulligan, Casey B.; and Murphy, Kevin M.: Chicago Price Theory. Princeton University Press, 2019 
        Jehle, Geoffrey A.; and Philip J. Reny. Advanced Microeconomic Theory. Addison Wesley Paperback, 2nd Edition: 2000. 
        Katz, Michael L.; and Harvey S. Rosen. Microeconomics. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 3rd Edition: 1997. 
        Kreps, David M. A Course in Microeconomic Theory. Princeton University Press: 1990 
        Landsburg, Steven. Price Theory and Applications. South-Western College Pub, 5th Edition: 2001. 
        Mankiw, N. Gregory. Principles of Microeconomics. South-Western Pub, 2nd Edition: 2000. 
        Mas-Colell, Andreu; Whinston, Michael D.; and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. Oxford University Press, US: 1995. 
        McGuigan, James R.; Moyer, R. Charles; and Frederick H. Harris. Managerial Economics: Applications, Strategy and Tactics. South-Western Educational Publishing, 9th Edition: 2001. 
        Nicholson, Walter. Microeconomic Theory: Basic Principles and Extensions. South-Western College Pub, 8th Edition: 2001. 
        Perloff, Jeffrey M. Microeconomics. Pearson – Addison Wesley, 4th Edition: 2007. 
        Perloff, Jeffrey M. Microeconomics: Theory and Applications with Calculus. Pearson – Addison Wesley, 1st Edition: 2007 
        Pindyck, Robert S.; and Daniel L. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. Prentice Hall, 7th Edition: 2008. 
        Ruffin, Roy J.; and Paul R. Gregory. Principles of Microeconomics. Addison Wesley, 7th Edition: 2000. 
        Sickles, R., &amp; Zelenyuk, V. (2019). Measurement of Productivity and Efficiency: Theory and Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. https://assets.cambridge.org/97811070/36161/frontmatter/9781107036161_frontmatter.pdf 
        Varian, Hal R. (1987). "microeconomics," The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 3, pp.&nbsp;461–63. 
        Varian, Hal R. Intermediate Microeconomics: A Modern Approach. W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 8th Edition: 2009. 
        Varian, Hal R. Microeconomic Analysis. W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 3rd Edition: 1992.
        
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Microeconomics
         
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Microeconomics 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library
           
        
       
       
      
       X-Lab: A Collaborative Micro-Economics and Social Sciences Research Laboratory 
       Simulations in Microeconomics 
       http://media.lanecc.edu/users/martinezp/201/MicroHistory.html – a brief history of microeconomics
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Microeconomics
           
         
         
          Major topics
          
            
            
             Aggregation 
             Budget set 
             Consumer choice 
             Convexity and non-convexity 
             Cost 
              
               Average 
               Marginal 
               Opportunity 
                
                 Implicit
                 
               Social 
               Sunk 
               Transaction
               
             Cost–benefit analysis 
             Deadweight loss 
             Distribution 
             Economies of scale 
             Economies of scope 
             Elasticity 
             Equilibrium 
              
               General
               
             Exchange 
             Externality 
             Firms 
             Goods and services 
              
               Goods 
               Service
               
             Household 
             Income–consumption curve 
             Information 
             Indifference curve 
             Intertemporal choice 
             Market 
             Market failure 
             Market structure 
              
               Competition 
                
                 Monopolistic 
                 Perfect
                 
               Duopoly 
               Monopoly 
                
                 Bilateral
                 
               Monopsony 
               Oligopoly 
               Oligopsony
               
             Pareto efficiency 
             Preferences 
             Price 
             Production 
             Profit 
             Public goods 
             Rationing 
             Rent 
             Returns to scale 
             Risk aversion 
             Scarcity 
             Shortage 
             Substitution effect 
             Surplus 
             Social choice 
             Supply &amp; demand 
             Uncertainty 
             Utility 
              
               Expected 
               Marginal
               
             Wage
             
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Behavioral 
             Business 
             Computational 
             Statistical decision theory 
             Econometrics 
             Engineering economics 
             Civil engineering economics 
             Evolutionary 
             Experimental 
             Game theory 
             Industrial organization 
             Institutional 
             Labor 
             Law 
             Managerial 
             Mathematical 
             Microfoundations of macroeconomics 
             Operations research 
             Optimization 
             Welfare
             
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Economics 
              
               Applied
               
             Macroeconomics 
             Political economy
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
      
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Economics
           
         
         
          Theoretical economics
          
            
            
             Microeconomics 
              
               Decision theory 
               Price theory 
               Game theory 
               Contract theory 
               Mechanism design
               
             Macroeconomics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Computational economics 
             Behavioral economics
             
           
         
         
          Empirical economics
          
            
            
             Econometrics 
              
               Economic statistics
               
             Experimental economics 
             Economic history
             
           
         
         
          Applied economics
          
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Business 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Economic geography 
             Education 
             Environmental 
             Financial 
             Health 
             Industrial organization 
             International 
             Labour 
             Law and economics 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Economic policy 
             Public economics 
             Public choice 
             Regional 
             Socioeconomics 
             Transportation 
             Urban 
             Welfare
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Schools (history)
            of economic thought
           
          
            
            
             Mainstream 
             Heterodox 
             American (National) 
             Ancient thought 
             Anarchist 
              
               Mutualism
               
             Austrian 
             Behavioral 
             Buddhist 
             Chartalism 
              
               Modern Monetary Theory
               
             Chicago 
             Classical 
             Critique of political economy 
             Disequilibrium 
             Ecological 
             Evolutionary 
             Feminist 
             Georgism 
             Historical 
             Institutional 
             Keynesian 
              
               Neo- (neoclassical–Keynesian synthesis) 
               New 
               Post- 
                
                 Circuitism
                
               
             Malthusianism 
             Marginalism 
             Marxian 
              
               Neo-
               
             Mercantilism 
             Neoclassical 
              
               Lausanne
               
             New classical 
              
               Real business-cycle theory
               
             New institutional 
             Physiocracy 
             Socialist 
             Stockholm 
             Supply-side 
             Thermoeconomics
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Notable economists
            and thinkers
            within economics
           
          
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             Johann Heinrich von Thünen 
             Friedrich List 
             Hermann Heinrich Gossen 
             Jules Dupuit 
             Antoine Augustin Cournot 
             John Stuart Mill 
             Karl Marx 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Henry George 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Georg Friedrich Knapp 
             Francis Ysidro Edgeworth 
             Vilfredo Pareto 
             Friedrich von Wieser 
             John Bates Clark 
             Thorstein Veblen 
             John R. Commons 
             Irving Fisher 
             Wesley Clair Mitchell 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Joseph Schumpeter 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             Frank Knight 
             John von Neumann 
             Alvin Hansen 
             Jacob Viner 
             Edward Chamberlin 
             Ragnar Frisch 
             Harold Hotelling 
             Michał Kalecki 
             Oskar R. Lange 
             Jacob Marschak 
             Gunnar Myrdal 
             Abba P. Lerner 
             Roy Harrod 
             Piero Sraffa 
             Simon Kuznets 
             Joan Robinson 
             E. F. Schumacher 
             Friedrich Hayek 
             John Hicks 
             Tjalling Koopmans 
             Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen 
             Wassily Leontief 
             John Kenneth Galbraith 
             Hyman Minsky 
             Herbert A. Simon 
             Milton Friedman 
             Paul Samuelson 
             Kenneth Arrow 
             William Baumol 
             Gary Becker 
             Elinor Ostrom 
             Robert Solow 
             Amartya Sen 
             Robert Lucas Jr. 
             Joseph Stiglitz 
             Richard Thaler 
             Paul Krugman 
             Thomas Piketty 
             more
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Index 
             Lists 
             Outline 
             Publications 
             Business portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Microeconomics&amp;oldid=1068264859"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Microeconomics
       Money
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use American English from March 2015
       All Wikipedia articles written in American English
       Articles needing additional references from October 2018
       All articles needing additional references
       CS1 errors: generic name
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikiquote
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Արեւմտահայերէն
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       བོད་ཡིག
       Bosanski
       Català
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       Corsu
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Ирон
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Limburgs
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       مصرى
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Scots
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       粵語
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 27 January 2022, at 13:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
