
 
  
   
  Geography - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
     
     
    
   Geography 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Study of the lands, the inhabitants and the phenomena of the Earth
       
      
      
       This article is about the science of the surfaces of planetary bodies. For the science of planetary material, see Geology. For other uses, see Geography (disambiguation) and Geo.
       
        
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Geography"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (February 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Geography
        
        
         
          
           
            
           
          
        
        
          Portal
        
        
          
          
           
            History of geography
           
            
            
             Graeco-Roman 
             Chinese 
             Islamic 
             Age of Discovery 
             History of cartography 
             Environmental determinism 
             Regional geography 
             Quantitative revolution 
             Critical geography
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Human geography
           
           
            Fields 
            
             Cultural 
             Development 
             Economic 
             Food 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Political 
             Population 
             Urban
             
            Theoretical Approaches  
            
             Behavioral 
             Critical 
             Feminist 
             Marxist 
             Non-representational theory 
             Modernism 
              
               Structuralism 
               Semiotics
               
             Postmodernism 
              
               Post-structuralism 
               Deconstruction
              
             
            Methods  
            
             Ethnography 
             Participant observation 
             Qualitative methods 
             Statistical survey 
             GIS
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Physical geography
           
           
            Fields 
            
             Astronomy 
             Biogeography 
             Climatology / Paleoclimatology 
             Coastal geography 
             Earth science 
             Geology 
             Geomorphology 
             Glaciology 
             Hydrology / Hydrography 
             Landscape ecology 
             Limnology 
             Oceanography 
             Palaeogeography 
             Pedology 
             Quaternary science
             
            Methods and techniques  
            
             Cartography 
             Geographic Information Systems (GIS) 
             Geostatistics 
             Global Positioning System (GPS) 
             Remote sensing 
             Spatial analysis
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Integrated geography
           
           
            Fields 
            
             Environmental geography 
              
               Environmental social science 
               Environmental science 
               Environmental studies 
               Landscape architecture 
               Landscape ecology
               
             Time geography
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Applied geography
           
           
            Fields 
            
             Biogeography 
              
               Phytogeography 
               Zoogeography
               
             Geobiology 
             Geochemistry 
             Geoeconomics 
             Geohistory 
             Geoinformatics 
             Geomathematics 
             Geophysics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           Societies 
           Index 
           Geographers
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Physical map of Earth
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Political map of Earth
        
       
       
      Geography (from Greek: γεωγραφία, geographia, literally "earth description") is a field of science devoted to the study of the lands, features, inhabitants, and phenomena of the Earth and planets. The first person to use the word γεωγραφία was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geography is an all-encompassing discipline that seeks an understanding of Earth and its human and natural complexities—not merely where objects are, but also how they have changed and come to be. 
      Geography is often defined in terms of two branches: human geography and physical geography. Human geography is concerned with the study of people and their communities, cultures, economies, and interactions with the environment by studying their relations with and across space and place. Physical geography is concerned with the study of processes and patterns in the natural environment like the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and geosphere. 
      The four historical traditions in geographical research are spatial analyses of natural and the human phenomena, area studies of places and regions, studies of human-land relationships, and the Earth sciences. Geography has been called "the world discipline" and "the bridge between the human and the physical sciences".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Introduction 
        2 Branches 
          
          2.1 Physical 
          2.2 Human 
          2.3 Integrated 
          2.4 Geomatics 
          2.5 Regional 
          2.6 Related fields 
           
        3 Techniques 
          
          3.1 Cartography 
          3.2 Geographic information systems 
          3.3 Remote sensing 
          3.4 Quantitative methods 
          3.5 Qualitative methods 
           
        4 History 
        5 Notable geographers 
        6 Institutions and societies 
        7 Publications 
        8 See also 
        9 Notes 
        10 References 
        11 External links 
        
       
      Introduction 
      Geography is a systematic study of the Universe and its features. Traditionally, geography has been associated with cartography and place names. Although many geographers are trained in toponymy and cartology, this is not their main preoccupation. Geographers study the space and the temporal database distribution of phenomena, processes, and features as well as the interaction of humans and their environment. Because space and place affect a variety of topics, such as economics, health, climate, plants and animals, geography is highly interdisciplinary. The interdisciplinary nature of the geographical approach depends on an attentiveness to the relationship between physical and human phenomena and its spatial patterns.  
      
      
       Names of places...are not geography...To know by heart a whole gazetteer full of them would not, in itself, constitute anyone a geographer. Geography has higher aims than this: it seeks to classify phenomena (alike of the natural and of the political world, in so far as it treats of the latter), to compare, to generalize, to ascend from effects to causes, and, in doing so, to trace out the laws of nature and to mark their influences upon man. This is 'a description of the world'—that is Geography. In a word Geography is a Science—a thing not of mere names but of argument and reason, of cause and effect.
       
        — William Hughes, 1863
       
       
      
      
       Just as all phenomena exist in time and thus have a history, they also exist in space and have a geography.
       
        — United States National Research Council, 1997
       
       
      Geography as a discipline can be split broadly into two main subsidiary fields: human geography and physical geography. The former largely focuses on the built environment and how humans create, view, manage, and influence space. The latter examines the natural environment, and how organisms, climate, soil, water, and landforms produce and interact. The difference between these approaches led to a third field, environmental geography, which combines physical and human geography and concerns the interactions between the environment and humans.  
      Branches 
      Physical 
      
      
       Main article: Physical geography
       
      Physical geography (or physiography) focuses on geography as an Earth science. It aims to understand the physical problems and the issues of lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, pedosphere, and global flora and fauna patterns (biosphere). Physical geography is the study of earth's seasons, climate, atmosphere, soil, streams, landforms, and oceans.  
       
       Physical geography can be divided into many broad categories, including: 
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Biogeography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Climatology &amp; meteorology  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Coastal geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Environmental management  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Geodesy  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Geomorphology  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Glaciology  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Hydrology &amp; hydrography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Landscape ecology  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Oceanography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Palaeogeography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Pedology  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Quaternary science  
          
         
       
      Human 
      
      
       Main article: Human geography
       
      Human geography (or anthropogeography) is a branch of geography that focuses on the study of patterns and processes that shape the human society. It encompasses the human, political, cultural, social, and economic aspects.  
       
       Human geography can be divided into many broad categories, such as: 
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Cultural geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Development geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Economic geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Health geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Historical &amp; Time geog.  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Political geog. &amp; Geopolitics  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Pop. geog. or Demography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Religion geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Social geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Transportation geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Tourism geography  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Urban geography  
          
         
       
      Various approaches to the study of human geography have also arisen through time and include:  
      
       Behavioral geography 
       Culture theory 
       Feminist geography 
       Geosophy
       
      Integrated 
      
      
       Main article: Integrated geography
       
      Integrated geography is concerned with the description of the spatial interactions between humans and the natural world. It requires an understanding of the traditional aspects of physical and human geography, like the ways that human societies conceptualize the environment. Integrated geography has emerged as a bridge between human and physical geography, as a result of the increasing specialisation of the two sub-fields. Since the changing of the human relationship with the environment as a result of globalization and technological change, a new approach was needed to understand the changing and dynamic relationship. Examples of areas of research in environmental geography include: emergency management, environmental management, sustainability, and political ecology.  
      Geomatics 
      
      
       Main article: Geomatics
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Digital Elevation Model (DEM)
        
       
       
      Geomatics is concerned with the application of computers to the traditional spatial techniques used in cartography and topography. Geomatics emerged from the quantitative revolution in geography in the mid-1950s. Today, geomatics methods include spatial analysis, geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing, and global positioning systems (GPS). Geomatics has led to a revitalization of some geography departments, especially in Northern America where the subject had a declining status during the 1950s.  
      Regional 
      
      
       Main article: Regional geography
       
      A branch which is concerned with the description of the unique characteristics of the earth's surface, resulting in each area from the combination of its complete natural or elements, as of physical and human environment. The main aim is to understand, or define the uniqueness, or character of a particular region that consists of natural as well as human elements. Attention is paid also to regionalization, which covers the proper techniques of space delimitation into regions.  
      Related fields 
      
       Interplanetary sciences: While the discipline of geography is normally concerned with the Earth, the term can also be informally used to describe the study of other worlds, such as the planets of the Solar System and even beyond. The study of systems larger than the Earth itself usually forms part of Astronomy or Cosmology. The study of other planets is usually called planetary science. Alternative terms such as areology (the study of Mars) have been proposed but are not widely used. 
       Regional science: In the 1950s, the regional science movement led by Walter Isard arose to provide a more quantitative and analytical base to geographical questions, in contrast to the descriptive tendencies of traditional geography programs. Regional science comprises the body of knowledge in which the spatial dimension plays a fundamental role, such as regional economics, resource management, location theory, urban and regional planning, transport and communication, human geography, population distribution, landscape ecology, and environmental quality. 
       Urban planning, regional planning, and spatial planning: Use the science of geography to assist in determining how to develop (or not develop) the land to meet particular criteria, such as safety, beauty, economic opportunities, the preservation of the built or natural heritage, and so on. The planning of towns, cities, and rural areas may be seen as applied geography.
       
      Techniques 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      As spatial interrelationships are key to this synoptic science, maps are a key tool. Classical cartography has been joined by a more modern approach to geographical analysis, computer-based geographic information systems (GIS). 
      In their study, geographers use four interrelated approaches:  
      
       Analytical&nbsp;– Asks why we find features and populations in a specific geographic area. 
       Descriptive&nbsp;– Simply specifies the locations of features and populations. 
       Regional&nbsp;– Examines systematic relationships between categories for a specific region or location on the planet. 
       Systematic&nbsp;– Groups geographical knowledge into categories that can be explored globally.
       
      Cartography 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         James Cook's 1770 chart of New Zealand
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Cartography
       
      Cartography studies the representation of the Earth's surface with abstract symbols (map making). Although other subdisciplines of geography rely on maps for presenting their analyses, the actual making of maps is abstract enough to be regarded separately. Cartography has grown from a collection of drafting techniques into an actual science. 
      Cartographers must learn cognitive psychology and ergonomics to understand which symbols convey information about the Earth most effectively, and behavioural psychology to induce the readers of their maps to act on the information. They must learn geodesy and fairly advanced mathematics to understand how the shape of the Earth affects the distortion of map symbols projected onto a flat surface for viewing. It can be said, without much controversy, that cartography is the seed from which the larger field of geography grew. Most geographers will cite a childhood fascination with maps as an early sign they would end up in the field.  
      Geographic information systems 
      
      
       Main article: Geographic information system
       
      Geographic information systems (GIS) deal with the storage of information about the Earth for automatic retrieval by a computer, in an accurate manner appropriate to the information's purpose. In addition to all of the other subdisciplines of geography, GIS specialists must understand computer science and database systems. GIS has revolutionized the field of cartography: nearly all mapmaking is now done with the assistance of some form of GIS software. The science of using GIS software and GIS techniques to represent, analyse, and predict the spatial relationships is called geographic information science (GISc).  
      Remote sensing 
      
      
       Main article: Remote sensing
       
      Remote sensing is the science of obtaining information about Earth features from measurements made at a distance. Remotely sensed data comes in many forms, such as satellite imagery, aerial photography, and data obtained from hand-held sensors. Geographers increasingly use remotely sensed data to obtain information about the Earth's land surface, ocean, and atmosphere, because it: (a) supplies objective information at a variety of spatial scales (local to global), (b) provides a synoptic view of the area of interest, (c) allows access to distant and inaccessible sites, (d) provides spectral information outside the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, and (e) facilitates studies of how features/areas change over time. Remotely sensed data may be analysed either independently of, or in conjunction with other digital data layers (e.g., in a geographic information system).  
      Quantitative methods 
      
      
       Main article: Geostatistics
       
      Geostatistics deal with quantitative data analysis, specifically the application of statistical methodology to the exploration of geographic phenomena. Geostatistics is used extensively in a variety of fields, including hydrology, geology, petroleum exploration, weather analysis, urban planning, logistics, and epidemiology. The mathematical basis for geostatistics derives from cluster analysis, linear discriminant analysis and non-parametric statistical tests, and a variety of other subjects. Applications of geostatistics rely heavily on geographic information systems, particularly for the interpolation (estimate) of unmeasured points. Geographers are making notable contributions to the method of quantitative techniques.  
      Qualitative methods 
      
      
       Main article: Ethnography
       
      Geographic qualitative methods, or ethnographical research techniques, are used by human geographers. In cultural geography there is a tradition of employing qualitative research techniques, also used in anthropology and sociology. Participant observation and in-depth interviews provide human geographers with qualitative data.  
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of geography
       
      The oldest known world maps date back to ancient Babylon from the 9th century BC. The best known Babylonian world map, however, is the Imago Mundi of 600 BC. The map as reconstructed by Eckhard Unger shows Babylon on the Euphrates, surrounded by a circular landmass showing Assyria, Urartu, and several cities, in turn surrounded by a "bitter river" (Oceanus), with seven islands arranged around it so as to form a seven-pointed star. The accompanying text mentions seven outer regions beyond the encircling ocean. The descriptions of five of them have survived. In contrast to the Imago Mundi, an earlier Babylonian world map dating back to the 9th century BC depicted Babylon as being further north from the center of the world, though it is not certain what that center was supposed to represent. 
      The ideas of Anaximander (c. 610–545 BC): considered by later Greek writers to be the true founder of geography, come to us through fragments quoted by his successors. Anaximander is credited with the invention of the gnomon, the simple, yet efficient Greek instrument that allowed the early measurement of latitude. Thales is also credited with the prediction of eclipses. The foundations of geography can be traced to the ancient cultures, such as the ancient, medieval, and early modern Chinese. The Greeks, who were the first to explore geography as both art and science, achieved this through Cartography, Philosophy, and Literature, or through Mathematics. There is some debate about who was the first person to assert that the Earth is spherical in shape, with the credit going either to Parmenides or Pythagoras. Anaxagoras was able to demonstrate that the profile of the Earth was circular by explaining eclipses. However, he still believed that the Earth was a flat disk, as did many of his contemporaries. One of the first estimates of the radius of the Earth was made by Eratosthenes. 
      The first rigorous system of latitude and longitude lines is credited to Hipparchus. He employed a sexagesimal system that was derived from Babylonian mathematics. The meridians were sub-divided into 360°, with each degree further subdivided into 60 (minutes). To measure the longitude at different locations on Earth, he suggested using eclipses to determine the relative difference in time. The extensive mapping by the Romans as they explored new lands would later provide a high level of information for Ptolemy to construct detailed atlases. He extended the work of Hipparchus, using a grid system on his maps and adopting a length of 56.5 miles for a degree. 
      From the 3rd century onwards, Chinese methods of geographical study and writing of geographical literature became much more comprehensive than what was found in Europe at the time (until the 13th century). Chinese geographers such as Liu An, Pei Xiu, Jia Dan, Shen Kuo, Fan Chengda, Zhou Daguan, and Xu Xiake wrote important treatises, yet by the 17th century advanced ideas and methods of Western-style geography were adopted in China.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Ptolemy world map, reconstituted from Ptolemy's Geographia, written c. 150
        
       
       
      During the Middle Ages, the fall of the Roman empire led to a shift in the evolution of geography from Europe to the Islamic world. Muslim geographers such as Muhammad al-Idrisi produced detailed world maps (such as Tabula Rogeriana), while other geographers such as Yaqut al-Hamawi, Abu Rayhan Biruni, Ibn Battuta, and Ibn Khaldun provided detailed accounts of their journeys and the geography of the regions they visited. Turkish geographer, Mahmud al-Kashgari drew a world map on a linguistic basis, and later so did Piri Reis (Piri Reis map). Further, Islamic scholars translated and interpreted the earlier works of the Romans and the Greeks and established the House of Wisdom in Baghdad for this purpose. Abū Zayd al-Balkhī, originally from Balkh, founded the "Balkhī school" of terrestrial mapping in Baghdad. Suhrāb, a late tenth century Muslim geographer accompanied a book of geographical coordinates, with instructions for making a rectangular world map with equirectangular projection or cylindrical equidistant projection. 
      Abu Rayhan Biruni (976–1048) first described a polar equi-azimuthal equidistant projection of the celestial sphere. He was regarded as the most skilled when it came to mapping cities and measuring the distances between them, which he did for many cities in the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. He often combined astronomical readings and mathematical equations, in order to develop methods of pin-pointing locations by recording degrees of latitude and longitude. He also developed similar techniques when it came to measuring the heights of mountains, depths of the valleys, and expanse of the horizon. He also discussed human geography and the planetary habitability of the Earth. He also calculated the latitude of Kath, Khwarezm, using the maximum altitude of the Sun, and solved a complex geodesic equation in order to accurately compute the Earth's circumference, which was close to modern values of the Earth's circumference. His estimate of 6,339.9&nbsp;km for the Earth radius was only 16.8&nbsp;km less than the modern value of 6,356.7&nbsp;km. In contrast to his predecessors, who measured the Earth's circumference by sighting the Sun simultaneously from two different locations, al-Biruni developed a new method of using trigonometric calculations, based on the angle between a plain and mountain top, which yielded more accurate measurements of the Earth's circumference, and made it possible for it to be measured by a single person from a single location.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Self portrait of Alexander von Humboldt, one of the early pioneers of geography as an academic subject in modern sense
        
       
       
      The European Age of Discovery during the 16th and the 17th centuries, where many new lands were discovered and accounts by European explorers such as Christopher Columbus, Marco Polo, and James Cook revived a desire for both accurate geographic detail, and more solid theoretical foundations in Europe. The problem facing both explorers and geographers was finding the latitude and longitude of a geographic location. The problem of latitude was solved long ago but that of longitude remained; agreeing on what zero meridian should be was only part of the problem. It was left to John Harrison to solve it by inventing the chronometer H-4 in 1760, and later in 1884 for the International Meridian Conference to adopt by convention the Greenwich meridian as zero meridian. 
      The 18th and the 19th centuries were the times when geography became recognized as a discrete academic discipline, and became part of a typical university curriculum in Europe (especially Paris and Berlin). The development of many geographic societies also occurred during the 19th century, with the foundations of the Société de Géographie in 1821, the Royal Geographical Society in 1830, Russian Geographical Society in 1845, American Geographical Society in 1851, and the National Geographic Society in 1888. The influence of Immanuel Kant, Alexander von Humboldt, Carl Ritter, and Paul Vidal de la Blache can be seen as a major turning point in geography from a philosophy to an academic subject. 
      Over the past two centuries, the advancements in technology with computers have led to the development of geomatics and new practices such as participant observation and geostatistics being incorporated into geography's portfolio of tools. In the West during the 20th century, the discipline of geography went through four major phases: environmental determinism, regional geography, the quantitative revolution, and critical geography. The strong interdisciplinary links between geography and the sciences of geology and botany, as well as economics, sociology and demographics have also grown greatly, especially as a result of earth system science that seeks to understand the world in a holistic view.  
      Notable geographers 
      
      
       Main articles: List of geographers and List of Graeco-Roman geographers
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Gerardus Mercator
        
       
       
      
       Alexander von Humboldt (1769–1859)&nbsp;– published Cosmos and founder of the sub-field biogeography. 
       Arnold Henry Guyot (1807–1884)&nbsp;– noted the structure of glaciers and advanced understanding in glacier motion, especially in fast ice flow. 
       Carl O. Sauer (1889–1975)&nbsp;– cultural geographer. 
       Carl Ritter (1779–1859)&nbsp;– occupied the first chair of geography at Berlin University. 
       David Harvey (born 1935)&nbsp;– Marxist geographer and author of theories on spatial and urban geography, winner of the Vautrin Lud Prize. 
       Doreen Massey (1944–2016)&nbsp;– scholar in the space and places of globalization and its pluralities; winner of the Vautrin Lud Prize. 
       Edward Soja (1940–2015)&nbsp;– worked on regional development, planning and governance and coined the terms Synekism and Postmetropolis; winner of the Vautrin Lud Prize. 
       Ellen Churchill Semple (1863–1932)&nbsp;– first female president of the Association of American Geographers. 
       Eratosthenes (c. 276–c. 195/194 BC)&nbsp;– calculated the size of the Earth. 
       Ernest Burgess (1886–1966)&nbsp;– creator of the concentric zone model. 
       Gerardus Mercator (1512–1594)&nbsp;– cartographer who produced the mercator projection 
       John Francon Williams (1854–1911) – author of The Geography of the Oceans. 
       Karl Butzer (1934–2016)&nbsp;– German-American geographer, cultural ecologist and environmental archaeologist. 
       Michael Frank Goodchild (born 1944)&nbsp;– GIS scholar and winner of the RGS founder's medal in 2003. 
       Muhammad al-Idrisi (Arabic: أبو عبد الله محمد الإدريسي; Latin: Dreses) (1100–1165)&nbsp;– author of Nuzhatul Mushtaq. 
       Nigel Thrift (born 1949)&nbsp;– originator of non-representational theory. 
       Paul Vidal de La Blache (1845–1918)&nbsp;– founder of the French school of geopolitics, wrote the principles of human geography. 
       Ptolemy (c. 100–c. 170)&nbsp;– compiled Greek and Roman knowledge into the book Geographia. 
       Radhanath Sikdar (1813–1870)&nbsp;– calculated the height of Mount Everest. 
       Sir Halford Mackinder (1861–1947)&nbsp;– co-founder of the LSE, Geographical Association. 
       Strabo (64/63 BC&nbsp;– c. AD 24)&nbsp;– wrote Geographica, one of the first books outlining the study of geography. 
       Walter Christaller (1893–1969)&nbsp;– human geographer and inventor of Central place theory. 
       William Morris Davis (1850–1934)&nbsp;– father of American geography and developer of the cycle of erosion. 
       Yi-Fu Tuan (born 1930)&nbsp;– Chinese-American scholar credited with starting Humanistic Geography as a discipline.
       
      Institutions and societies 
      
       American Association of Geographers (AAG) 
       American Geographical Society (US) 
       Anton Melik Geographical Institute (Slovenia) 
       Institute of Geographical Information Systems (Pakistan) 
       Karachi Geographical Society (Pakistan) 
       National Geographic Society (US) 
       Royal Canadian Geographical Society (Canada) 
       Royal Danish Geographical Society (Denmark) 
       Royal Geographical Society (UK) 
       Russian Geographical Society (Russia)
       
      Publications 
      
       African Geographical Review 
       Annals of the American Association of Geographers 
       Antipode 
       Geographical Review 
       The Geographical Journal 
       The Professional Geographer
       
      See also 
      
       Geographical space
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Hayes-Bohanan 2009.  
         ^ Hornby &amp; Jones 1991, p.&nbsp;7.  
         ^ Hughes, William. (1863). The Study of Geography. Lecture delivered at King's College, London, by Sir Marc Alexander. Quoted in Baker, J.N.L (1963). The History of Geography. Oxford: Basil Blackwell. p.&nbsp;66. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-85328-022-4.  
         ^ "Chapter 3: Geography's Perspectives". 
           Rediscovering Geography: New Relevance for Science and Society. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. 1997. p.&nbsp;28. doi:10.17226/4913. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-309-05199-6. Archived from the original on 7 May 2014. Retrieved 6 May 2014.  
         ^ a b Hough &amp; Izdebska 2016, p.&nbsp;502.  
         ^ Cotterill 1997.  
         ^ Lockyer 1900, pp.&nbsp;207–8.  
         ^ Wang 2017, pp.&nbsp;1–4.  
         ^ Minshull 2017, p.&nbsp;29.  
         ^ a b Raaflaub &amp; Talbert 2009, p.&nbsp;147.  
         ^ Siebold 1998.  
         ^ Delano Smith 1996, pp.&nbsp;209–211.  
         ^ Finkel 1995, p.&nbsp;26–27.  
         ^ a b Kish 1978, p.&nbsp;11.  
         ^ Tassoul &amp; Tassoul 2004, p.&nbsp;14.  
         ^ Smith 1846, p.&nbsp;46.  
         ^ Sullivan 2000.  
         ^ a b Needham 1959, p.&nbsp;512.  
         ^ Nawwab, Hoye &amp; Speers 2018.  
         ^ Edson &amp; Savage-Smith 2007, pp.&nbsp;61–63.  
         ^ Tibbetts 1997, pp.&nbsp;104–107.  
         ^ King 1996, pp.&nbsp;128–184.  
         ^ Aber 2003.  
         ^ Goodman 1992, p.&nbsp;31.  
         ^ Aughton 2009, p.&nbsp;164.  
         ^ Société de Géographie 2016.  
         ^ 
           "About Us". rgs.org. Royal Geographical Society. Archived from the original on 18 October 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Русское Географическое Общество (основано в 1845 г.)" . rgo.ru (in Russian). Russian Geographical Society. Archived from the original on 24 May 2012. Retrieved 10 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "History". amergeog.org. The American Geographical Society. Archived from the original on 17 October 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016.  
         ^ 
           "National Geographic Society". state.gov. U.S. Department of State. Retrieved 10 November 2016.  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
        
         Aber, James Sandusky (2003). "Abu Rayhan al-Biruni". academic.emporia.edu. Emporia State University. Archived from the original on 11 August 2011. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Aughton, Peter (2009). Voyages that changed the world. Penguin Group. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84724-004-0. 
        
         Bonnett, Alastair (2008). What is Geography?. New York: SAGE Publishing. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84920-649-5. 
        
         Bonnett, Alastair (March 2003). "Geography as the world discipline: connecting popular and academic geographical imaginations". Area. 35 (1): 55–63. doi:10.1111/1475-4762.00110. ISSN&nbsp;0004-0894. 
        
         Cotterill, Peter D. (1997). "What is geography?". AAG Career Guide: Jobs in Geography and related Geographical Sciences. American Association of Geographers. Archived from the original on 6 October 2006. Retrieved 9 October 2006. 
        
         Delano Smith, Catherine (1996). "Imago Mundi's Logo the Babylonian Map of the World". Imago Mundi. 48: 209–211. doi:10.1080/03085699608592846. JSTOR&nbsp;1151277. 
        
         Dorn, Harold (1991). The Geography of Science. Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8018-4151-4. 
        
         Edson, Evelyn; Savage-Smith, Emilie (2007). "Medieval Views of the Cosmos". International Journal of the Classical Tradition. 13:3 (3): 61–63. JSTOR&nbsp;30222166. 
        
         Finkel, Irving (1995). A join to the map of the world: A notable discovery. British Museum Magazine. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7141-2073-7. 
        
         Goodman, Lenn Evan (1992). Avicenna. Great Britain: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-01929-3. It was Biruni, not Avicenna, who found a way for a single man, at a single moment, to measure the earth's circumference, by trigonometric calculations based on angles measured from a mountaintop and the plain beneath it – thus improving on Eratosthenes' method of sighting the sun simultaneously from two different sites, applied in the ninth century by astronomers of the Khalif al-Ma'mun. 
        
         Hayes-Bohanan, James (29 September 2009). "What is Environmental Geography, Anyway?". webhost.bridgew.edu. Bridgewater State University. Archived from the original on 26 October 2006. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Hornby, William F.; Jones, Melvyn (29 June 1991). An introduction to Settlement Geography. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-28263-5. Archived from the original on 25 December 2016. 
        
         Hough, Carole; Izdebska, Daria (2016). "Names and Geography". In Gammeltoft, Peder (ed.). The Oxford Handbook of Names and Naming (First&nbsp;ed.). Oxford, United Kingdom: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-965643-1. 
        
         Johnston, Ron (2000). "Human Geography". In Johnston, Ron; Gregory, Derek; Pratt, Geraldine; et&nbsp;al. (eds.). The Dictionary of Human Geography. Oxford: Blackwell. pp.&nbsp;353–360. 
        
         King, David A. (1996). Rashed, Roshdi (ed.). Astronomy and Islamic society: Qibla, gnomics and timekeeping (PDF). Encyclopedia of the History of Arabic Science. Vol.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-203-71184-2. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 November 2016. 
        
         Kish, George (1978). A Source Book in Geography. Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-674-82270-2. 
        
         Lockyer, Norman (1900). "Physiography and Physical Geography". Nature. 63 (1626): 207–208. Bibcode:1900Natur..63..207R. doi:10.1038/063207a0. ISSN&nbsp;0028-0836. 
        
         Minshull, Roger (5 July 2017). Regional Geography: Theory and Practice. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-351-49408-3. 
        
         Nawwab, Ismail I.; Hoye, Paul F.; Speers, Peter C. (5 September 2018). "Islam and Islamic History and The Middle East". islamicity.com. Archived from the original on 17 June 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Needham, Joseph (1959). Mathematics and the Sciences of the Heavens and the Earth. Science and Civilization in China. Vol.&nbsp;3. Taipei: Caves Books, Ltd. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-05801-8. Archived from the original on 25 September 2016. 
        
         Pattison, William D. (1990). "The Four Traditions of Geography" (PDF). Journal of Geography (published 1964). September/October 1990 (5): 202–206. doi:10.1080/00221349008979196. ISSN&nbsp;0022-1341. Archived (PDF) from the original on 30 November 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Pidwirny, Dr. Michael; Jones, Scott (2009). "Elements of Geography". physicalgeography.net (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Okanagan: University of British Columbia Okanagan. Archived from the original on 1 May 2009. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Raaflaub, Kurt A.; Talbert, Richard J.A. (2009). Geography and Ethnography: Perceptions of the World in Pre-Modern Societies. John Wiley &amp; Sons. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4051-9146-3. 
        
         Roller, Duane W. (24 January 2010). Eratosthenes' Geography. Translated by Roller, Duane W. Princeton: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-14267-8. Archived from the original on 19 November 2015. 
        
         Siebold, Jim (1998). "Babylonian clay tablet, 600 B.C." henry-davis.com. Henry Davis Consulting Inc. Archived from the original on 9 November 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Smith, Sir William (1846). Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology: Earinus-Nyx. Vol.&nbsp;2nd. London: Taylor and Walton. 
        
         Société de Géographie (2016). "Société de Géographie, Paris, France" . socgeo.com (in French). Société de Géographie. Archived from the original on 6 November 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Sullivan, Dan (2000). "Mapmaking and its History". rutgers.edu. Rutgers University. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 10 November 2016. 
        
         Tassoul, Jean-Louis; Tassoul, Monique (2004). A Concise History of Solar and Stellar Physics. London: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-11711-9. 
        
         Tibbetts, Gerald R. (1997). "The Beginnings of a Cartographic Tradition". In Harley, John Brian; Woodward, David (eds.). The history of cartography. Vol.&nbsp;2. Chicago: Brill. ISBN&nbsp;0-226-31633-5. 
        
         Wang, Jiaoe (2017). "Economic Geography: Spatial Interaction". International Encyclopedia of Geography: People, the Earth, Environment and Technology. American Cancer Society. pp.&nbsp;1–4. doi:10.1002/9781118786352.wbieg0641. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-78635-2.
        
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Geographyat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
        Data from Wikidata
       
       
      
       Definition of Geography at Dictionary.com 
       Definition of geography by Lexico 
       Origin and meaning of geography by Online Etymology Dictionary 
       Topic Dictionaries at Oxford Learner's Dictionaries
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Geography topics
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Glossary 
             History 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
         
          Branches
          
           
           
            
             
              Human
              
                
                
                 Agricultural 
                 Behavioral 
                 Cultural 
                 Development 
                 Economic 
                 Health 
                 Historical 
                 Political 
                 Population 
                 Settlement 
                  
                   Regional 
                   Urban
                  
                 
               
             
             
              Physical
              
                
                
                 Biogeography 
                  
                   Ecology 
                   Phytogeography 
                   Zoogeography
                   
                 Coastal / Oceanography 
                 Earth science 
                  
                   Atmospheric science / Meteorology 
                   Environmental science 
                   Climatology / Paleoclimatology / Palaeogeography 
                   Geobiology 
                   Geophysics / Geodesy
                   
                 Earth system science 
                 Geomorphology / Geology 
                 Glaciology 
                 Hydrology / Limnology 
                 Pedology (Edaphology/Soil science) 
                 Quaternary science
                 
               
             
             
              Integrated
              
                
                
                 Integrated / Environmental 
                  
                   Environmental social science 
                   Environmental studies 
                   Landscape architecture 
                   Landscape ecology
                   
                 Time geography
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Techniques and tools
          
            
            
             Geoinformatics / Geomathematics 
              
               Cartography 
               Geologic modelling 
               Geostatistics 
               Geographic information system
               
             Geochronology 
             Geomatics 
             Hydrography 
              
               Photogrammetry 
               Remote sensing
               
             Land change modeling
             
           
         
         
          Institutions
          
            
            
             Geographic data and information organizations 
             Geographical societies 
             Geoscience societies 
             National mapping agency
             
           
         
         
          Education
          
            
            
             Geography education 
              
               Geo-literacy 
               International Geography Olympiad 
               Spatial citizenship
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Portal 
              Commons 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Glossaries of science and engineering
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Aerospace engineering 
             Agriculture 
             Archaeology 
             Architecture 
             Artificial intelligence 
             Astronomy 
             Biology 
             Botany 
             Calculus 
             Chemistry 
             Civil engineering 
             Clinical research 
             Computer hardware 
             Computer science 
             Ecology 
             Economics 
             Electrical and electronics engineering 
             Engineering 
              
               A–L 
               M–Z
               
             Entomology 
             Environmental science 
             Evolutionary biology 
             Genetics 
             Geography 
             Geology 
             Ichthyology 
             Machine vision 
             Mathematics 
             Mechanical engineering 
             Medicine 
             Meteorology 
             Nanotechnology 
             Ornithology 
             Physics 
             Probability and statistics 
             Psychiatry 
             Robotics 
             Scientific naming 
             Structural engineering 
             Virology
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Historical Dictionary of Switzerland 
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
       
           
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Geography&amp;oldid=1070758029"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Geography
       Earth sciences
       Social sciences
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism
       Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
       Articles needing additional references from February 2018
       All articles needing additional references
       Use dmy dates from May 2020
       Articles containing Greek-language text
       Articles needing additional references from January 2021
       CS1: long volume value
       CS1 French-language sources (fr)
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with HDS identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
       Use Oxford spelling from August 2016
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        <a href="/w/index.php?title=Geography&amp;action=edit" title="This page is protected.
You can view its source " accesskey="e">View source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikiquote
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Acèh
       Адыгэбзэ
       Afrikaans
       Akan
       Alemannisch
       አማርኛ
       العربية
       Aragonés
       ܐܪܡܝܐ
       Arpetan
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       अवधी
       Avañe'ẽ
       Авар
       Aymar aru
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       Bamanankan
       বাংলা
       Banjar
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Basa Banyumasan
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Bikol Central
       Bislama
       Български
       Boarisch
       བོད་ཡིག
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Буряад
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Cebuano
       Čeština
       Chavacano de Zamboanga
       ChiShona
       Corsu
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       ދިވެހިބަސް
       Dolnoserbski
       डोटेली
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Estremeñu
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Fiji Hindi
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Frysk
       Furlan
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Gàidhlig
       Galego
       ГӀалгӀай
       贛語
       ગુજરાતી
       गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni
       客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
       한국어
       Hausa
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hornjoserbsce
       Hrvatski
       Ido
       Igbo
       Ilokano
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Interlingue
       ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitut
       Ирон
       IsiXhosa
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       Kabɩyɛ
       Kalaallisut
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Kapampangan
       Къарачай-малкъар
       ქართული
       Kaszëbsczi
       Қазақша
       Kernowek
       Kiswahili
       Коми
       Kotava
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Kriyòl gwiyannen
       Kurdî
       Кыргызча
       Ladin
       Ladino
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Лезги
       Lietuvių
       Li Niha
       Ligure
       Limburgs
       Lingála
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Livvinkarjala
       La .lojban.
       Luganda
       Lombard
       Magyar
       Madhurâ
       मैथिली
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       Malti
       मराठी
       მარგალური
       مصرى
       ဘာသာ မန်
       مازِرونی
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
       Mirandés
       Мокшень
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nāhuatl
       Nederlands
       Nedersaksies
       नेपाली
       नेपाल भाषा
       日本語
       Napulitano
       Нохчийн
       Nordfriisk
       Norfuk / Pitkern
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Nouormand
       Novial
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       ଓଡ଼ିଆ
       Oromoo
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       पालि
       پنجابی
       پښتو
       Patois
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Picard
       Tok Pisin
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Ποντιακά
       Português
       Qaraqalpaqsha
       Qırımtatarca
       Română
       Romani čhib
       Rumantsch
       Runa Simi
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Gagana Samoa
       संस्कृतम्
       ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ
       سرائیکی
       Sardu
       Scots
       Sesotho sa Leboa
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       سنڌي
       SiSwati
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Ślůnski
       Soomaaliga
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Taclḥit
       Taqbaylit
       Tarandíne
       Татарча/tatarça
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       ᏣᎳᎩ
       ತುಳು
       Türkçe
       Türkmençe
       Тыва дыл
       Удмурт
       Українська
       اردو
       ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
       Vèneto
       Vepsän kel’
       Tiếng Việt
       Volapük
       Võro
       Walon
       文言
       West-Vlams
       Winaray
       Wolof
       吴语
       Xitsonga
       ייִדיש
       Yorùbá
       粵語
       Zazaki
       Zeêuws
       Žemaitėška
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 February 2022, at 04:05&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
