
 
  
   
  Human geography - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Human geography 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Study of cultures, communities and activities of peoples of the world
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Original mapping by John Snow showing the clusters of cholera cases in the London epidemic of 1854, which is a classical case of using human geography
        
       
       
      Human geography or anthropogeography is the branch of geography that is associated and deals with humans and their relationships with communities, cultures, economies, and interactions with the environment by studying their relations with and across locations. It analyzes patterns of human social interaction, their interactions with the environment, and their spatial interdependencies by application of qualitative and quantitative research methods.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Fields 
          
          2.1 Cultures 
          2.2 Development 
          2.3 Economies 
          2.4 Health 
          2.5 Histories 
          2.6 Politics 
          2.7 Population 
          2.8 Settlement 
          2.9 Urbanism 
           
        3 Philosophical and theoretical approaches 
        4 List of notable human geographers 
        5 Journals 
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of geography
       
      
      
       
        
         History of geography
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           Graeco-Roman 
           Chinese 
           Islamic 
           Age of Discovery 
           History of cartography 
           Historical geography 
           Environmental determinism 
           Regional geography 
           Quantitative revolution 
           Critical geography
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Geography was not recognized as a formal academic discipline until the 18th century, although many scholars had undertaken geographical scholarship for much longer, particularly through cartography. 
      The Royal Geographical Society was founded in England in 1830, although the United Kingdom did not get its first full Chair of geography until 1917. The first real geographical intellect to emerge in United Kingdom's geographical minds was Halford John Mackinder, appointed reader at Oxford University in 1887. 
      The National Geographic Society was founded in the United States in 1888 and began publication of the National Geographic magazine which became, and continues to be, a great popularizer of geographic information. The society has long supported geographic research and education on geographical topics. 
      The Association of American Geographers was founded in 1904 and was renamed the American Association of Geographers in 2016 to better reflect the increasingly international character of its membership. 
      One of the first examples of geographic methods being used for purposes other than to describe and theorize the physical properties of the earth is John Snow's map of the 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak. Though Snow was primarily a physician and a pioneer of epidemiology rather than a geographer, his map is probably one of the earliest examples of health geography. 
      The now fairly distinct differences between the subfields of physical and human geography have developed at a later date. This connection between both physical and human properties of geography is most apparent in the theory of environmental determinism, made popular in the 19th century by Carl Ritter and others, and has close links to the field of evolutionary biology of the time. Environmental determinism is the theory that people's physical, mental and moral habits are directly due to the influence of their natural environment. However, by the mid-19th century, environmental determinism was under attack for lacking methodological rigor associated with modern science, and later as a means to justify racism and imperialism. 
      A similar concern with both human and physical aspects is apparent during the later 19th and first half of the 20th centuries focused on regional geography. The goal of regional geography, through something known as regionalisation, was to delineate space into regions and then understand and describe the unique characteristics of each region through both human and physical aspects. With links to possibilism and cultural ecology some of the same notions of causal effect of the environment on society and culture remain with environmental determinism. 
      By the 1960s, however, the quantitative revolution led to strong criticism of regional geography. Due to a perceived lack of scientific rigor in an overly descriptive nature of the discipline, and a continued separation of geography from its two subfields of physical and human geography and from geology, geographers in the mid-20th century began to apply statistical and mathematical models in order to solve spatial problems. Much of the development during the quantitative revolution is now apparent in the use of geographic information systems; the use of statistics, spatial modeling, and positivist approaches are still important to many branches of human geography. Well-known geographers from this period are Fred K. Schaefer, Waldo Tobler, William Garrison, Peter Haggett, Richard J. Chorley, William Bunge, and Torsten Hägerstrand. 
      From the 1970s, a number of critiques of the positivism now associated with geography emerged. Known under the term 'critical geography,' these critiques signaled another turning point in the discipline. Behavioral geography emerged for some time as a means to understand how people made perceived spaces and places, and made locational decisions. The more influential 'radical geography' emerged in the 1970s and 1980s. It draws heavily on Marxist's theory and techniques, and is associated with geographers such as David Harvey and Richard Peet. Radical geographers seek to say meaningful things about problems recognized through quantitative methods, provide explanations rather than descriptions, put forward alternatives and solutions, and be politically engaged, rather than using the detachment associated with positivists. (The detachment and objectivity of the quantitative revolution was itself critiqued by radical geographers as being a tool of capital). Radical geography and the links to Marxism and related theories remain an important part of contemporary human geography (See: Antipode). Critical geography also saw the introduction of 'humanistic geography', associated with the work of Yi-Fu Tuan, which pushed for a much more qualitative approach in methodology. 
      The changes under critical geography have led to contemporary approaches in the discipline such as feminist geography, new cultural geography, settlement geography, "demonic" geographies, and the engagement with postmodern and post-structural theories and philosophies.  
      Fields 
      The primary fields of study in human geography focus around the core fields of:  
      Cultures 
      Cultural geography is the study of cultural products and norms - their variation across spaces and places, as well as their relations. It focuses on describing and analyzing the ways language, religion, economy, government, and other cultural phenomena vary or remain constant from one place to another and on explaining how humans function spatially.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         This picture shows terraced rice agriculture in Asia.
        
       
       
      
       Subfields include: Social geography, Animal geographies, Language geography, Sexuality and space, Children's geographies, and Religion and geography.
       
      Development 
      Development geography is the study of the Earth's geography with reference to the standard of living and the quality of life of its human inhabitants, study of the location, distribution and spatial organization of economic activities, across the Earth. The subject matter investigated is strongly influenced by the researcher's methodological approach.  
      Economies 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Economic Geography: Shan street bazaar, market in Myanmar
        
       
       
      Economic geography examines relationships between human economic systems, states, and other factors, and the biophysical environment.  
      
       Subfields include: Marketing geography and Transportation geography
       
      Health 
      Medical or health geography is the application of geographical information, perspectives, and methods to the study of health, disease, and health care. Health geography deals with the spatial relations and patterns between people and the environment. This is a sub-discipline of human geography, researching how and why diseases are spread and contained.  
      Histories 
      Historical geography is the study of the human, physical, fictional, theoretical, and "real" geographies of the past. Historical geography studies a wide variety of issues and topics. A common theme is the study of the geographies of the past and how a place or region changes through time. Many historical geographers study geographical patterns through time, including how people have interacted with their environment, and created the cultural landscape.  
      Politics 
      Political geography is concerned with the study of both the spatially uneven outcomes of political processes and the ways in which political processes are themselves affected by spatial structures.  
      
       Subfields include: Electoral geography, Geopolitics, Strategic geography and Military geography
       
      Population 
      Population geography is the study of ways in which spatial variations in the distribution, composition, migration, and growth of populations are related to their environment or location.  
      Settlement 
      Settlement geography, including urban geography, is the study of urban and rural areas with specific regards to spatial, relational and theoretical aspects of settlement. That is the study of areas which have a concentration of buildings and infrastructure. These are areas where the majority of economic activities are in the secondary sector and tertiary sectors. In case of urban settlement, they probably have a high population density.  
      Urbanism 
      Urban geography is the study of cities, towns, and other areas of relatively dense settlement. Two main interests are site (how a settlement is positioned relative to the physical environment) and situation (how a settlement is positioned relative to other settlements). Another area of interest is the internal organization of urban areas with regard to different demographic groups and the layout of infrastructure. This subdiscipline also draws on ideas from other branches of Human Geography to see their involvement in the processes and patterns evident in an urban area.  
      
       Subfields include: Economic geography, Population geography, and Settlement geography. These are clearly not the only subfields that could be used to assist in the study of Urban geography, but they are some major players.
       
      Philosophical and theoretical approaches 
      Within each of the subfields, various philosophical approaches can be used in research; therefore, an urban geographer could be a Feminist or Marxist geographer, etc. 
      Such approaches are:  
      
       
       
        Animal geographies 
        Behavioral geography 
        Cognitive geography 
        Critical geography 
        Feminist geography 
        Marxist geography 
        Non-representational theory 
        Positivism 
        Postcolonialism 
        Poststructuralist geography 
        Psychoanalytic geography 
        Psychogeography 
        Spatial analysis 
        Time geography
        
       
      List of notable human geographers 
      
      
       Main article: List of notable human geographers
       
      Journals 
      As with all social sciences, human geographers publish research and other written work in a variety of academic journals. Whilst human geography is interdisciplinary, there are a number of journals that focus on human geography. 
      These include:  
      
       
       
        ACME: An International E-Journal for Critical Geographies 
        Antipode 
        Area 
        Dialogues in Human Geography 
        Economic geography 
        Environment and Planning 
        Geoforum 
        Geografiska Annaler 
        GeoHumanities 
        Global Environmental Change: Human and Policy Dimensions 
        Human Geography 
        Migration Letters 
        Progress in Human Geography 
        Southeastern Geographer 
        Social &amp; Cultural Geography 
        Tijdschrift voor economische en sociale geografie 
        Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers
        
       
      See also 
      
       
        
        Geography portal
       
       
      
       Physical geography 
       Geography of food 
       Integrated geography 
       Political ecology 
       Emotional geography 
       AP Human Geography
       
      Notes 
      
       Urbanization is a major component of human and population geography, especially over the past 100 years as population shift has moved to urban areas.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Johnston, Ron (2000). "Human Geography". In Johnston, Ron; Gregory, Derek; Pratt, Geraldine; et&nbsp;al. (eds.). The Dictionary of Human Geography. Oxford: Blackwell. pp.&nbsp;353–60.  
         ^ 
           Russel, Polly. "Human Geography". British Library. Retrieved 26 February 2017.  
         ^ 
           Reinhold, Dennie (7 February 2017). "Human Geography". www.geog.uni-heidelberg.de. Retrieved 23 February 2017.  
         ^ 
           Royal Geographical Society. "History". Retrieved 9 March 2011.  
         ^ 
           Harvey, David (1973). Social Justice and the City. London: Edward Arnold. pp.&nbsp;128–9.  
         ^ 
           Antipode: A Radical Journal of Geography (2009). "Antipode: A Radical Journal of Geography: Celebrating Over 40 years of Radical Geography 1969-2009". Archived from the original on 10 October 2009. Retrieved 31 May 2010.  
         ^ 
           Jordan-Bychkov, Terry G.; Domosh, Mona; Rowntree, Lester (1994). The human mosaic: a thematic introduction to cultural geography. New York: HarperCollinsCollegePublishers. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-06-500731-2.  
         ^ 
           Dummer, Trevor J.B. (22 April 2008). "Health geography: supporting public health policy and planning". CMAJ&nbsp;: Canadian Medical Association Journal. 178 (9): 1177–1180. doi:10.1503/cmaj.071783. ISSN&nbsp;0820-3946. PMC&nbsp;2292766. PMID&nbsp;18427094.  
         ^ a b 
           Palm, Risa (1982). "Urban geography: city structures". Progress in Geography. 6: 89–95. doi:10.1177/030913258200600104. S2CID&nbsp;157288359.  
         ^ 
           Kaplan, Dave H.; Holloway, Steven; Wheeler, James O. (2014). Urban Geography, 3rd. Edition. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-57385-3.  
         ^ ACME journal homepage. Archived 6 May 2015 at the Wayback Machine Accessed: 18 May 2015.  
         ^  Accessed: 26 July 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Global Environmental Change". Retrieved 11 May 2020 – via www.journals.elsevier.com.  
         ^ 
           "Southeastern Geographer". muse.jhu.edu. Retrieved 15 July 2021.  
         ^  Accessed: 26 July 2017.  
         ^ In only 200 years, the world's urban population has grown from 2 percent to nearly 50 percent of all people.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Human geography 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library 
           Resources in other libraries
           
        
       
       
      
       
        Clifford, N.J.; S.L.; Rice, S.P.; Valentine, G., eds. (2009). Key Concepts in Geography (2nd&nbsp;ed.). London: SAGE. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4129-3021-5. 
       
        Peet, Richard, ed. (1998). Modern Geographical Thought. Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55786-378-2. 
       
        Cloke, Paul J.; Crang, Phil; Crang, Philip; Goodwin, Mark (2005). Introducing human geographies (2nd&nbsp;ed.). London: Hodder Arnold. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-340-88276-4. 
       
        Cloke, Paul J.; Crang, Philip; Goodwin, Mark (2004). Envisioning human geographies. London: Arnold. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-340-72013-4. 
       
        Crang, Mike; Thrift, Nigel J. (2000). Thinking space. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-16016-2. 
       
        Daniels, Peter; Bradshaw, Michael; Shaw, Denis J.B.; Sidaway, James D. (2004). An Introduction to Human Geography: issues for the 21st century (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-121766-9. 
       
        de Blij, Harm; Jan, De (2008). Geography: realms, regions, and concepts. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-12905-0. 
       
        Flowerdew, Robin; Martin, David (2005). Methods in human geography: a guide for students doing a research project (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Harlow: Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-582-47321-8. 
       
        Gregory, Derek; Martin, Ron G.; Smith, Graham (1994). Human geography: society, space and social science. Basingstoke: Macmillan. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-333-45251-6. 
       
        Harvey, David D. (1996). Justice, Nature and the Geography of Difference. Blackwell Pub. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55786-680-6. 
       
        Johnston, R.J. (1979). Geography and Geographers. Anglo-American Human Geography since 1945. Edward Arnold, London. 
       
        Johnston, R.J. (2009). The Dictionary of Human Geography (5th&nbsp;ed.). Blackwell Publishers, London. 
       
        Johnston, R.J (2002). Geographies of Global Change: Remapping the World. Blackwell Publishers, London. 
       
        Moseley, William W.; Lanegran, David A.; Pandit, Kavita (2007). The Introductory Reader in Human Geography: Contemporary Debates and Classic Writings. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing Limited. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4051-4922-8. 
       
        Soja, Edward W. (1989). Postmodern geographies&nbsp;: the reassertion of space in critical social theory. London: Verso. ISBN&nbsp;0-86091-225-6. OCLC&nbsp;18190662.
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Human geography at Wikimedia Commons 
       Worldmapper – Mapping project using social data sets
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Sub-fields of and approaches to human geography
           
         
         
          Sub-fields
          
            
            
             Behavioral 
             Cognitive 
             Cultural 
             Development 
             Economic 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Integrated 
             Language 
             Marketing 
             Military 
             Political 
             Population 
             Religion 
             Social 
             Strategic 
             Tourism 
             Transport 
             Urban
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Approaches
          
            
            
             Critical 
             Culture theory 
             Feminist 
             Marxist 
             Modernism 
              
               Structuralism 
               Semiotics
               
             Non-representational theory 
             Postmodernism 
              
               Post-structuralism 
               Deconstruction
               
             Scientific method 
             Sexuality and space 
             Time
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Portal 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Geography topics
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Glossary 
             History 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
         
          Branches
          
           
           
            
             
              Human
              
                
                
                 Agricultural 
                 Behavioral 
                 Cultural 
                 Development 
                 Economic 
                 Health 
                 Historical 
                 Political 
                 Population 
                 Settlement 
                  
                   Regional 
                   Urban
                  
                 
               
             
             
              Physical
              
                
                
                 Biogeography 
                  
                   Ecology 
                   Phytogeography 
                   Zoogeography
                   
                 Coastal / Oceanography 
                 Earth science 
                  
                   Atmospheric science / Meteorology 
                   Environmental science 
                   Climatology / Paleoclimatology / Palaeogeography 
                   Geobiology 
                   Geophysics / Geodesy
                   
                 Earth system science 
                 Geomorphology / Geology 
                 Glaciology 
                 Hydrology / Limnology 
                 Pedology (Edaphology/Soil science) 
                 Quaternary science
                 
               
             
             
              Integrated
              
                
                
                 Integrated / Environmental 
                  
                   Environmental social science 
                   Environmental studies 
                   Landscape architecture 
                   Landscape ecology
                   
                 Time geography
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Techniques and tools
          
            
            
             Geoinformatics / Geomathematics 
              
               Cartography 
               Geologic modelling 
               Geostatistics 
               Geographic information system
               
             Geochronology 
             Geomatics 
             Hydrography 
              
               Photogrammetry 
               Remote sensing
               
             Land change modeling
             
           
         
         
          Institutions
          
            
            
             Geographic data and information organizations 
             Geographical societies 
             Geoscience societies 
             National mapping agency
             
           
         
         
          Education
          
            
            
             Geography education 
              
               Geo-literacy 
               International Geography Olympiad 
               Spatial citizenship
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Portal 
              Commons 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Environmental social science
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Ecological anthropology 
             Ecological economics 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Environmental crime 
             Environmental economics 
             Environmental communication 
             Environmental history 
             Environmental politics 
             Environmental psychology 
             Environmental sociology 
             Human ecology 
             Human geography 
             Political ecology 
             Regional science
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Agroecology 
             Anthrozoology 
             Behavioral geography 
             Community studies 
             Demography 
             Design 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Ecological humanities 
             Economics 
              
               energy 
               thermo
               
             Environmental 
              
               education 
               ethics 
               law 
               science 
               studies
               
             Ethnobiology 
              
               botany 
               ecology 
               zoology
               
             Forestry 
             Industrial ecology 
             Integrated geography 
             Permaculture 
             Rural sociology 
             Sexecology 
             Science, technology and society 
              
               science studies
               
             Sustainability 
              
               science 
               studies
               
             Systems ecology 
             Urban 
              
               ecology 
               geography 
               metabolism 
               studies
              
             
           
         
         
          Applied
          
            
            
             Architecture 
              
               landscape 
               sustainable
               
             Ecopsychology 
             Engineering 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Green criminology 
             Health 
              
               environmental 
               epidemiology 
               occupational 
               public
               
             Management 
              
               environmental 
               fisheries 
               forest 
               natural resource 
               waste
               
             Planning 
              
               environmental 
               land use 
               regional 
               spatial 
               urban
               
             Policy 
              
               energy 
               environmental
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Environment portal 
              Category 
             Concepts 
             Degrees 
             Journals 
             Research institutes 
             Scholars
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Human_geography&amp;oldid=1071095317"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Human geography
       Anthropology
       Branches of geography
       Environmental social science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from May 2020
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from February 2017
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Aragonés
       অসমীয়া
       Asturianu
       বাংলা
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Corsu
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Кыргызча
       Latviešu
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Lietuvių
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 20:49&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
