
 
  
   
  Regional geography - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Regional geography 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         History of geography
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           Graeco-Roman 
           Chinese 
           Islamic 
           Age of Discovery 
           History of cartography 
           Historical geography 
           Environmental determinism 
           Regional geography 
           Quantitative revolution 
           Critical geography
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Regional geography is a major branch of geography. It focuses on the interaction of different cultural and natural geofactors in a specific land or landscape, while its counterpart, systematic geography, concentrates on a specific geofactor at the global level.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Basics 
        2 Approach 
        3 Notable figures 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        
       
      Basics 
      Attention is paid to unique characteristics of a particular region such as natural elements, human elements, and regionalization which covers the techniques of delineating space into regions. Rooted in the tradition of the German-speaking countries, the two pillars of regional geography are the idiographic study of Länder or spatial individuals (specific places, countries, continents) and the typological study of Landschaften or spatial types (landscapes such as coastal regions, mountain regions, border regions, etc.).  
      Approach 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Diagram of regional geography of the world
        
       
       
      Regional geography is also a certain approach to geographical study, comparable to quantitative geography or critical geography. This approach prevailed during the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, a period when then regional geography paradigm was central within the geographical sciences. It was later criticised for its descriptiveness and the lack of theory. Strong criticism was leveled against it in particular during the 1950s and the quantitative revolution. Main critics were G. H. T. Kimble and Fred K. Schaefer. 
      The regional geography paradigm has influenced many other geographical sciences, including economic geography and geomorphology. Regional geography is still taught in some universities as a study of the major regions of the world. In the Western Hemisphere, these may be cultural regions such as Northern and Latin America, or their corresponding geographic regions or continents, namely North and South America, whose "boundaries" differ significantly from the cultural regions. In the Eastern Hemisphere, Europe and Asia may be considered cultural regions or as continents depending on the criteria used to differentiate between them and determine their shared boundaries. These discrepancies arise from the aforementioned lack of a unifying theory behind the definitions and delineations of these continents and regions. 
      In addition, the notion of a city-region approach to the study of geography, underlining urban-rural interactions, gained credence since the mid-1980s. Some geographers have also attempted to reintroduce a certain amount of regionalism since the 1980s. This involves a complex definition of regions and their interactions with other scales. 
      Regional geography was once used as a basis for the geomorphological works such as those of David Linton and Henri Baulig. Yet, according to Karna Lidmar-Bergström regional geography is since the 1990s not longer accepted by mainstream scholarship as a basis for geomorphological studies.  
      Notable figures 
      Notable figures in regional geography were Alfred Hettner in Germany, with his concept of chorology; Paul Vidal de la Blache in France, with the possibilism approach (possibilism being a softer notion than environmental determinism); and, in the United States, Richard Hartshorne with his concept of areal differentiation. The school of Carl O. Sauer, strongly influenced by Alfred Hettner and Paul Vidal de la Blache, is also seen as regional geography in its broadest sense.  
      See also 
      
       Chorography 
       Regional planning 
       Regional studies
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Kimble, G.H.T. (1951): The Inadequacy of the Regional Concept, London Essays in Geography, edd. L.D. Stamp and S.W. Wooldridge, pp. 492-512.  
         ^ Schaefer, F.K. (1953): Exceptionalism in Geography: A Methodological Examination, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, vol. 43, pp. 226-245.  
         ^ MacLeod, G. and Jones, M. (2001): Renewing The Geography of Regions, Environment and Planning D, 16(9), pp. 669-695.  
         ^ a b Lidmar-Bergström, Karna (2020). "The major landforms of the bedrock of Sweden–with a view on the relationships between physical geography and geology". Geografiska Annaler. Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography. 102: 1–11. doi:10.1080/04353676.2019.1702809.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Geography topics
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Glossary 
             History 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
         
          Branches
          
           
           
            
             
              Human
              
                
                
                 Agricultural 
                 Behavioral 
                 Cultural 
                 Development 
                 Economic 
                 Health 
                 Historical 
                 Political 
                 Population 
                 Settlement 
                  
                   Regional 
                   Urban
                  
                 
               
             
             
              Physical
              
                
                
                 Biogeography 
                  
                   Ecology 
                   Phytogeography 
                   Zoogeography
                   
                 Coastal / Oceanography 
                 Earth science 
                  
                   Atmospheric science / Meteorology 
                   Environmental science 
                   Climatology / Paleoclimatology / Palaeogeography 
                   Geobiology 
                   Geophysics / Geodesy
                   
                 Earth system science 
                 Geomorphology / Geology 
                 Glaciology 
                 Hydrology / Limnology 
                 Pedology (Edaphology/Soil science) 
                 Quaternary science
                 
               
             
             
              Integrated
              
                
                
                 Integrated / Environmental 
                  
                   Environmental social science 
                   Environmental studies 
                   Landscape architecture 
                   Landscape ecology
                   
                 Time geography
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Techniques and tools
          
            
            
             Geoinformatics / Geomathematics 
              
               Cartography 
               Geologic modelling 
               Geostatistics 
               Geographic information system
               
             Geochronology 
             Geomatics 
             Hydrography 
              
               Photogrammetry 
               Remote sensing
               
             Land change modeling
             
           
         
         
          Institutions
          
            
            
             Geographic data and information organizations 
             Geographical societies 
             Geoscience societies 
             National mapping agency
             
           
         
         
          Education
          
            
            
             Geography education 
              
               Geo-literacy 
               International Geography Olympiad 
               Spatial citizenship
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Portal 
              Commons 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Regional_geography&amp;oldid=1046594566"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Regional geography
       Area studies
       Branches of geography
       History of geography
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Беларуская
       भोजपुरी
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       Français
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       עברית
       ქართული
       Latviešu
       मराठी
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 26 September 2021, at 13:32&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
