
 
  
   
  Jurisprudence - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Jurisprudence 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Theoretical study of law
       
      
      
       For the "jurisprudence" of courts, see Case law.
       
      
      
       "Concept of law" redirects here. For the book by H. L. A. Hart, see The Concept of Law.
       
        
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Jurisprudence"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Philosophers of law ask "what is law, and what should it be?"
        
       
       
      Jurisprudence, or legal theory, is the theoretical study of the propriety of law. Scholars of jurisprudence seek to explain the nature of law in its most general form and provide a deeper understanding of legal reasoning and analogy, legal systems, legal institutions, and the proper application and role of law in society. 
      Modern jurisprudence began in the 18th century and was focused on the first principles of natural law, civil law, and the law of nations. General jurisprudence can be divided into categories both by the type of question scholars seek to answer and by the theories of jurisprudence, or schools of thought, regarding how those questions are best answered. Contemporary philosophy of law, which deals with general jurisprudence, addresses problems internal to law and legal systems and problems of law as a social institution that relates to the larger political and social context in which it exists. 
      This article addresses three distinct branches of thought in general jurisprudence. Ancient natural law is the idea that there are rational objective limits to the power of legislative rulers. The foundations of law are accessible through reason, and it is from these laws of nature that human laws gain whatever force they have. Analytic jurisprudence (Clarificatory jurisprudence) rejects natural law's fusing of what law is and what it ought to be. It espouses the use of a neutral point of view and descriptive language when referring to aspects of legal systems. It encompasses such theories of jurisprudence as "legal positivism", which holds that there is no necessary connection between law and morality and that the force of law comes from basic social facts; and "legal realism", which argues that the real-world practice of law determines what law is, the law having the force that it does because of what legislators, lawyers, and judges do with it. Normative jurisprudence is concerned with "evaluative" theories of law. It deals with what the goal or purpose of law is, or what moral or political theories provide a foundation for the law. It not only addresses the question "What is law?", but also tries to determine what the proper function of law should be, or what sorts of acts should be subject to legal sanctions, and what sorts of punishment should be permitted.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 History 
        3 Natural law 
          
          3.1 Aristotle 
          3.2 Thomas Aquinas 
          3.3 School of Salamanca 
          3.4 Lon Fuller 
          3.5 John Finnis 
           
        4 Analytic jurisprudence 
          
          4.1 Historical school 
          4.2 Sociological jurisprudence 
          4.3 Legal positivism 
            
            4.3.1 Thomas Hobbes 
            4.3.2 Bentham and Austin 
            4.3.3 Hans Kelsen 
            4.3.4 H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. Hart 
            4.3.5 Joseph Raz 
             
          4.4 Legal realism 
          4.5 Critical legal studies 
          4.6 Critical rationalism 
          4.7 Legal interpretivism 
          4.8 Therapeutic jurisprudence 
           
        5 Normative jurisprudence 
          
          5.1 Virtue jurisprudence 
          5.2 Deontology 
          5.3 Utilitarianism 
          5.4 John Rawls 
           
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Etymology 
      The English word is derived from the Latin, iurisprudentia. Iuris is the genitive form of ius meaning law, and prudentia meaning prudence (also: discretion, foresight, forethought, circumspection). It refers to the exercise of good judgment, common sense, and caution, especially in the conduct of practical matters. The word first appeared in written English in 1628, at a time when the word prudence meant knowledge of, or skill in, a matter. It may have entered English via the French jurisprudence, which appeared earlier.  
      History 
      Ancient Indian jurisprudence is mentioned in various Dharmaśāstra texts, starting with the Dharmasutra of Bhodhayana. 
      In Ancient China, the Daoists, Confucians, and Legalists all had competing theories of jurisprudence. 
      Jurisprudence in Ancient Rome had its origins with the (periti)—experts in the jus mos maiorum (traditional law), a body of oral laws and customs. 
      Praetors established a working body of laws by judging whether or not singular cases were capable of being prosecuted either by the edicta, the annual pronunciation of prosecutable offense, or in extraordinary situations, additions made to the edicta. An iudex would then prescribe a remedy according to the facts of the case. 
      The sentences of the iudex were supposed to be simple interpretations of the traditional customs, but—apart from considering what traditional customs applied in each case—soon developed a more equitable interpretation, coherently adapting the law to newer social exigencies. The law was then adjusted with evolving institutiones (legal concepts), while remaining in the traditional mode. Praetors were replaced in the 3rd century BC by a laical body of prudentes. Admission to this body was conditional upon proof of competence or experience. 
      Under the Roman Empire, schools of law were created, and practice of the law became more academic. From the early Roman Empire to the 3rd century, a relevant body of literature was produced by groups of scholars, including the Proculians and Sabinians. The scientific nature of the studies was unprecedented in ancient times. 
      After the 3rd century, juris prudentia became a more bureaucratic activity, with few notable authors. It was during the Eastern Roman Empire (5th century) that legal studies were once again undertaken in depth, and it is from this cultural movement that Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis was born.  
      Natural law 
      In its general sense, natural law theory may be compared to both state-of-nature law and general law understood on the basis of being analogous to the laws of physical science. Natural law is often contrasted to positive law which asserts law as the product of human activity and human volition. 
      Another approach to natural-law jurisprudence generally asserts that human law must be in response to compelling reasons for action. There are two readings of the natural-law jurisprudential stance.  
      
       The strong natural law thesis holds that if a human law fails to be in response to compelling reasons, then it is not properly a "law" at all. This is captured, imperfectly, in the famous maxim: lex iniusta non est lex (an unjust law is no law at all). 
       The weak natural law thesis holds that if a human law fails to be in response to compelling reasons, then it can still be called a "law", but it must be recognised as a defective law.
       
      Notions of an objective moral order, external to human legal systems, underlie natural law. What is right or wrong can vary according to the interests one is focused on. John Finnis, one of the most important of modern natural lawyers, has argued that the maxim "an unjust law is no law at all" is a poor guide to the classical Thomist position. 
      Strongly related to theories of natural law are classical theories of justice, beginning in the West with Plato's Republic.  
      Aristotle 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Aristotle, by Francesco Hayez
        
       
       
      Aristotle is often said to be the father of natural law. Like his philosophical forefathers Socrates and Plato, Aristotle posited the existence of natural justice or natural right (dikaion physikon, δικαίον φυσικόν, Latin ius naturale). His association with natural law is largely due to how he was interpreted by Thomas Aquinas. This was based on Aquinas' conflation of natural law and natural right, the latter of which Aristotle posits in Book V of the Nicomachean Ethics (Book IV of the Eudemian Ethics). Aquinas's influence was such as to affect a number of early translations of these passages, though more recent translations render them more literally. 
      Aristotle's theory of justice is bound up in his idea of the golden mean. Indeed, his treatment of what he calls "political justice" derives from his discussion of "the just" as a moral virtue derived as the mean between opposing vices, just like every other virtue he describes. His longest discussion of his theory of justice occurs in Nicomachean Ethics and begins by asking what sort of mean a just act is. He argues that the term "justice" actually refers to two different but related ideas: general justice and particular justice. When a person's actions toward others are completely virtuous in all matters, Aristotle calls them "just" in the sense of "general justice"; as such, this idea of justice is more or less coextensive with virtue. "Particular" or "partial justice", by contrast, is the part of "general justice" or the individual virtue that is concerned with treating others equitably. 
      Aristotle moves from this unqualified discussion of justice to a qualified view of political justice, by which he means something close to the subject of modern jurisprudence. Of political justice, Aristotle argues that it is partly derived from nature and partly a matter of convention. This can be taken as a statement that is similar to the views of modern natural law theorists. But it must also be remembered that Aristotle is describing a view of morality, not a system of law, and therefore his remarks as to nature are about the grounding of the morality enacted as law, not the laws themselves. 
      The best evidence of Aristotle's having thought there was a natural law comes from the Rhetoric, where Aristotle notes that, aside from the "particular" laws that each people has set up for itself, there is a "common" law that is according to nature. The context of this remark, however, suggests only that Aristotle thought that it could be rhetorically advantageous to appeal to such a law, especially when the "particular" law of one's own city was adverse to the case being made, not that there actually was such a law. Aristotle, moreover, considered certain candidates for a universally valid, natural law to be wrong. Aristotle's theoretical paternity of the natural law tradition is consequently disputed.  
      Thomas Aquinas 
      
      
       Main articles: Thomas Aquinas and Treatise on Law
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Thomas Aquinas was the most influential Western medieval legal scholar.
        
       
       
      Thomas Aquinas is the foremost classical proponent of natural theology, and the father of the Thomistic school of philosophy, for a long time the primary philosophical approach of the Roman Catholic Church. The work for which he is best known is the Summa Theologiae. One of the thirty-five Doctors of the Church, he is considered by many Catholics to be the Church's greatest theologian. Consequently, many institutions of learning have been named after him. 
      Aquinas distinguished four kinds of law: eternal, natural, divine, and human:  
      
       Eternal law refers to divine reason, known only to God. It is God's plan for the universe. Man needs this plan, for without it he would totally lack direction. 
       Natural law is the "participation" in the eternal law by rational human creatures, and is discovered by reason 
       Divine law is revealed in the scriptures and is God's positive law for mankind 
       Human law is supported by reason and enacted for the common good.
       
      Natural law is based on "first principles":  
      
       ...&nbsp;this is the first precept of the law, that good is to be done and promoted, and evil is to be avoided. All other precepts of the natural law are based on this&nbsp;...
       
      The desires to live and to procreate are counted by Aquinas among those basic (natural) human values on which all other human values are based.  
      School of Salamanca 
      
      
       Main articles: School of Salamanca and ius gentium
       
      Francisco de Vitoria was perhaps the first to develop a theory of ius gentium (the rights of peoples), and thus is an important figure in the transition to modernity. He extrapolated his ideas of legitimate sovereign power to international affairs, concluding that such affairs ought to be determined by forms respecting of the rights of all and that the common good of the world should take precedence before the good of any single state. This meant that relations between states ought to pass from being justified by force to being justified by law and justice. Some scholars have upset the standard account of the origins of International law, which emphasises the seminal text De iure belli ac pacis by Hugo Grotius, and argued for Vitoria and, later, Suárez's importance as forerunners and, potentially, founders of the field. Others, such as Koskenniemi, have argued that none of these humanist and scholastic thinkers can be understood to have founded international law in the modern sense, instead placing its origins in the post-1870 period. 
      Francisco Suárez, regarded as among the greatest scholastics after Aquinas, subdivided the concept of ius gentium. Working with already well-formed categories, he carefully distinguished ius inter gentes from ius intra gentes. Ius inter gentes (which corresponds to modern international law) was something common to the majority of countries, although, being positive law, not natural law, it was not necessarily universal. On the other hand, ius intra gentes, or civil law, is specific to each nation.  
      Lon Fuller 
      
      
       Main article: Lon L. Fuller
       
      Writing after World War II, Lon L. Fuller defended a secular and procedural form of natural law. He emphasised that the (natural) law must meet certain formal requirements (such as being impartial and publicly knowable). To the extent that an institutional system of social control falls short of these requirements, Fuller argued, we are less inclined to recognise it as a system of law, or to give it our respect. Thus, the law must have a morality that goes beyond the societal rules under which laws are made.  
      John Finnis 
      
      
       Main article: John Finnis
       
      Sophisticated positivist and natural law theories sometimes resemble each other and may have certain points in common. Identifying a particular theorist as a positivist or a natural law theorist sometimes involves matters of emphasis and degree, and the particular influences on the theorist's work. The natural law theorists of the distant past, such as Aquinas and John Locke made no distinction between analytic and normative jurisprudence, while modern natural law theorists, such as John Finnis, who claim to be positivists, still argue that law is moral by nature. In his book Natural Law and Natural Rights (1980, 2011), John Finnis provides a restatement of natural law doctrine.  
      Analytic jurisprudence 
      
      
       Main article: Analytic jurisprudence
       
      Analytic, or "clarificatory", jurisprudence means taking a neutral point of view and using descriptive language when referring to various aspects of legal systems. This was a philosophical development that rejected natural law's fusing of what law is and what it ought to be. David Hume argued, in A Treatise of Human Nature, that people invariably slip from describing what the world is to asserting that we therefore ought to follow a particular course of action. But as a matter of pure logic, one cannot conclude that we ought to do something merely because something is the case. So analysing and clarifying the way the world is must be treated as a strictly separate question from normative and evaluative questions of what ought to be done. 
      The most important questions of analytic jurisprudence are: "What are laws?"; "What is the law?"; "What is the relationship between law and power/sociology?"; and "What is the relationship between law and morality?" Legal positivism is the dominant theory, although there is a growing number of critics who offer their own interpretations.  
      Historical school 
      Historical jurisprudence came to prominence during the debate on the proposed codification of German law. In his book On the Vocation of Our Age for Legislation and Jurisprudence, Friedrich Carl von Savigny argued that Germany did not have a legal language that would support codification because the traditions, customs, and beliefs of the German people did not include a belief in a code. Historicists believe that law originates with society.  
      Sociological jurisprudence 
      
      
       Main article: Sociology of Law
       
      An effort to systematically inform jurisprudence from sociological insights developed from the beginning of the twentieth century, as sociology began to establish itself as a distinct social science, especially in the United States and in continental Europe. In Germany, Austria and France, the work of the "free law" theorists (e.g. Ernst Fuchs, Hermann Kantorowicz, Eugen Ehrlich and Francois Geny) encouraged the use of sociological insights in the development of legal and juristic theory. The most internationally influential advocacy for a "sociological jurisprudence" occurred in the United States, where, throughout the first half of the twentieth century, Roscoe Pound, for many years the Dean of Harvard Law School, used this term to characterise his legal philosophy. In the United States, many later writers followed Pound's lead or developed distinctive approaches to sociological jurisprudence. In Australia, Julius Stone strongly defended and developed Pound's ideas. In the 1930s, a significant split between the sociological jurists and the American legal realists emerged. In the second half of the twentieth century, sociological jurisprudence as a distinct movement declined as jurisprudence came more strongly under the influence of analytical legal philosophy; but with increasing criticism of dominant orientations of legal philosophy in English-speaking countries in the present century, it has attracted renewed interest. Increasingly, its contemporary focus is on providing theoretical resources for jurists to aid their understanding of new types of regulation (for example, the diverse kinds of developing transnational law) and the increasingly important interrelations of law and culture, especially in multicultural Western societies.  
      Legal positivism 
      
      
       Main article: Legal positivism
       
      Legal positivism is the view that the content of law is dependent on social facts and that a legal system's existence is not constrained by morality. Within legal positivism, theorists agree that law's content is a product of social facts, but theorists disagree whether law's validity can be explained by incorporating moral values. Legal positivists who argue against the incorporation of moral values to explain law's validity are labeled exclusive (or hard) legal positivists. Joseph Raz's legal positivism is an example of exclusive legal positivism. Legal positivists who argue that law's validity can be explained by incorporating moral values are labeled inclusive (or soft) legal positivists. The legal positivist theories of H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. Hart and Jules Coleman are examples of inclusive legal positivism.  
      Thomas Hobbes 
      
      
       Main article: Thomas Hobbes
       
      Hobbes was a social contractarian and believed that the law had peoples' tacit consent. He believed that society was formed from a state of nature to protect people from the state of war that would exist otherwise. In Leviathan, Hobbes argues that without an ordered society life would be "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short." It is commonly said that Hobbes's views on human nature were influenced by his times. The English Civil War and the Cromwellian dictatorship had taken place; and, in reacting to that, Hobbes felt that absolute authority vested in a monarch, whose subjects obeyed the law, was the basis of a civilized society.  
      Bentham and Austin 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bentham's utilitarian theories remained dominant in law until the twentieth century.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main articles: Jeremy Bentham and John Austin (legal philosopher)
       
      John Austin and Jeremy Bentham were early legal positivists who sought to provide a descriptive account of law that describes the law as it is. Austin explained the descriptive focus for legal positivism by saying, "The existence of law is one thing; its merit and demerit another. Whether it be or be not is one enquiry; whether it be or be not conformable to an assumed standard, is a different enquiry." For Austin and Bentham, a society is governed by a sovereign who has de facto authority. Through the sovereign's authority come laws, which for Austin and Bentham are commands backed by sanctions for non-compliance. Along with Hume, Bentham was an early and staunch supporter of the utilitarian concept, and was an avid prison reformer, advocate for democracy, and firm atheist. Bentham's views about law and jurisprudence were popularized by his student John Austin. Austin was the first chair of law at the new University of London, from 1829. Austin's utilitarian answer to "what is law?" was that law is "commands, backed by threat of sanctions, from a sovereign, to whom people have a habit of obedience". H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. Hart criticized Austin and Bentham's early legal positivism because the command theory failed to account for individual's compliance with the law.  
      Hans Kelsen 
      
      
       Main article: Hans Kelsen
       
      Hans Kelsen is considered one of the prominent jurists of the 20th century and has been highly influential in Europe and Latin America, although less so in common-law countries. His Pure Theory of Law describes law as "binding norms", while at the same time refusing to evaluate those norms. That is, "legal science" is to be separated from "legal politics". Central to the Pure Theory of Law is the notion of a "basic norm" (Grundnorm)'—a hypothetical norm, presupposed by the jurist, from which all "lower" norms in the hierarchy of a legal system, beginning with constitutional law, are understood to derive their authority or the extent to which they are binding. Kelsen contends that the extent to which legal norms are binding, their specifically "legal" character, can be understood without tracing it ultimately to some suprahuman source such as God, personified Nature or—of great importance in his time—a personified State or Nation.  
      H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. Hart 
      
      
       Main article: H. L. A. Hart
       
      In the English-speaking world, the most influential legal positivist of the twentieth century was H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. Hart, professor of jurisprudence at Oxford University. Hart argued that the law should be understood as a system of social rules. In The Concept of Law, Hart rejected Kelsen's views that sanctions were essential to law and that a normative social phenomenon, like law, cannot be grounded in non-normative social facts. 
      Hart claimed that law is the union primary rules and secondary rules. Primary rules require individuals to act or not act in certain ways and create duties for the governed to obey. Secondary rules are rules that confer authority to create new primary rules or modify existing ones. Secondary rules are divided into rules of adjudication (how to resolve legal disputes), rules of change (how laws are amended), and the rule of recognition (how laws are identified as valid). The validity of a legal system comes from the "rule of recognition", which is a customary practice of officials (especially barristers and judges) who identify certain acts and decisions as sources of law. In 1981, Neil MacCormick wrote a pivotal book on Hart (second edition published in 2008), which further refined and offered some important criticisms that led MacCormick to develop his own theory (the best example of which is his Institutions of Law, 2007). Other important critiques include those of Ronald Dworkin, John Finnis, and Joseph Raz. 
      In recent years, debates on the nature of law have become increasingly fine-grained. One important debate is within legal positivism. One school is sometimes called "exclusive legal positivism" and is associated with the view that the legal validity of a norm can never depend on its moral correctness. A second school is labeled "inclusive legal positivism", a major proponent of which is Wil Waluchow, and is associated with the view that moral considerations may, but do not necessarily, determine the legal validity of a norm.  
      Joseph Raz 
      
      
       Main article: Joseph Raz
       
      Joseph Raz's theory of legal positivism argues against the incorporation of moral values to explain law's validity. In Raz's 1979 book The Authority of Law, he criticised what he called the "weak social thesis" to explain law. He formulates the weak social thesis as "(a) Sometimes the identification of some laws turn on moral arguments, but also with, (b) In all legal systems the identification of some law turns on moral argument." Raz argues that law's authority is identifiable purely through social sources, without reference to moral reasoning. This view he calls "the sources thesis". Raz suggests that any categorisation of rules beyond their role as authority is better left to sociology than to jurisprudence. Some philosophers used to contend that positivism was the theory that held that there was "no necessary connection" between law and morality; but influential contemporary positivists—including Joseph Raz, John Gardner, and Leslie Green—reject that view. As Raz points out, it is a necessary truth that there are vices that a legal system cannot possibly have (for example, it cannot commit rape or murder).  
      Legal realism 
      
      
       Main article: Legal realism
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Oliver Wendell Holmes was a self-styled legal realist.
        
       
       
      Legal realism is the view that a theory of law should be descriptive and account for the reasons why judges decide cases as they do. Legal realism had some affinities with the sociology of law and sociological jurisprudence. The essential tenet of legal realism is that all law is made by humans and thus should account for reasons besides legal rules that led to a legal decision. 
      There are two separate schools of legal realism: American legal realism and Scandinavian legal realism. American legal realism grew out of the writings of Oliver Wendell Holmes. At the start of Holmes's The Common Law, he claims that "he life of the law has not been logic: it has been experience". This view was a reaction to legal formalism that was popular the time due to the Christopher Columbus Langdell. Holmes's writings on jurisprudence also laid the foundations for the predictive theory of law. In his article "The Path of the Law", Holmes argues that "the object of  study...is prediction, the prediction of the incidence of the public force through the instrumentality of the courts." 
      For the American legal realists of the early twentieth century, legal realism sought to describe the way judges decide cases. For legal realists such as Jerome Frank, judges start with the facts before them and then move to legal principles. Before legal realism, theories of jurisprudence turned this method around where judges were thought to begin with legal principles and then look to facts. 
      It has become common today to identify Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., as the main precursor of American Legal Realism (other influences include Roscoe Pound, Karl Llewellyn, and Justice Benjamin Cardozo). Karl Llewellyn, another founder of the U.S. legal realism movement, similarly believed that the law is little more than putty in the hands of judges who are able to shape the outcome of cases based on their personal values or policy choices. 
      The Scandinavian school of legal realism argued that law can be explained through the empirical methods used by social scientists. Prominent Scandinavian legal realists are Alf Ross, Axel Hägerström, and Karl Olivecrona. Scandinavian legal realists also took a naturalist approach to law. 
      Despite its decline in popularity, legal realism continues to influence a wide spectrum of jurisprudential schools today, including critical legal studies, feminist legal theory, critical race theory, sociology of law, and law and economics.  
      Critical legal studies 
      Critical legal studies are a new theory of jurisprudence that has developed since the 1970s. The theory can generally be traced to American legal realism and is considered "the first movement in legal theory and legal scholarship in the United States to have espoused a committed Left political stance and perspective". It holds that the law is largely contradictory, and can be best analyzed as an expression of the policy goals of a dominant social group.  
      Critical rationalism 
      Karl Popper originated the theory of critical rationalism. According to Reinhold Zippelius many advances in law and jurisprudence take place by operations of critical rationalism. He writes, "daß die Suche nach dem Begriff des Rechts, nach seinen Bezügen zur Wirklichkeit und nach der Gerechtigkeit experimentierend voranschreitet, indem wir Problemlösungen versuchsweise entwerfen, überprüfen und verbessern" (that we empirically search for solutions to problems, which harmonise fairly with reality, by projecting, testing and improving the solutions).  
      Legal interpretivism 
      
      
       Main article: Interpretivism (legal)
       
      American legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin's legal theory attacks legal positivists that separate law's content from morality. In his book Law's Empire, Dworkin argued that law is an "interpretive" concept that requires barristers to find the best-fitting and most just solution to a legal dispute, given their constitutional traditions. According to him, law is not entirely based on social facts, but includes the best moral justification for the institutional facts and practices that form a society's legal tradition. It follows from Dworkin's view that one cannot know whether a society has a legal system in force, or what any of its laws are, until one knows some truths about the moral justifications of the social and political practices of that society. It is consistent with Dworkin's view—in contrast with the views of legal positivists or legal realists—that no-one in a society may know what its laws are, because no-one may know the best moral justification for its practices. 
      Interpretation, according to Dworkin's "integrity theory of law", has two dimensions. To count as an interpretation, the reading of a text must meet the criterion of "fit". Of those interpretations that fit, however, Dworkin maintains that the correct interpretation is the one that portrays the practices of the community in their best light, or makes them "the best that they can be". But many writers have doubted whether there is a single best moral justification for the complex practices of any given community, and others have doubted whether, even if there is, it should be counted as part of the law of that community.  
      Therapeutic jurisprudence 
      
      
       Main article: Therapeutic jurisprudence
       
      Consequences of the operation of legal rules or legal procedures—or of the behavior of legal actors (such as lawyers and judges)—may be either beneficial (therapeutic) or harmful (anti-therapeutic) to people. Therapeutic jurisprudence ("TJ") studies law as a social force (or agent) and uses social science methods and data to study the extent to which a legal rule or practice affects the psychological well-being of the people it impacts.  
      Normative jurisprudence 
      
      
       See also: Political philosophy
       
      In addition to the question, "What is law?", legal philosophy is also concerned with normative, or "evaluative" theories of law. What is the goal or purpose of law? What moral or political theories provide a foundation for the law? What is the proper function of law? What sorts of acts should be subject to punishment, and what sorts of punishment should be permitted? What is justice? What rights do we have? Is there a duty to obey the law? What value has the rule of law? Some of the different schools and leading thinkers are discussed below.  
      Virtue jurisprudence 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Plato (left) and Aristotle (right), a detail of The School of Athens
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Virtue jurisprudence
       
      Aretaic moral theories, such as contemporary virtue ethics, emphasize the role of character in morality. Virtue jurisprudence is the view that the laws should promote the development of virtuous character in citizens. Historically, this approach has been mainly associated with Aristotle or Thomas Aquinas. Contemporary virtue jurisprudence is inspired by philosophical work on virtue ethics.  
      Deontology 
      
      
       Main article: Deontological ethics
       
      Deontology is the "theory of duty or moral obligation". The philosopher Immanuel Kant formulated one influential deontological theory of law. He argued that any rule we follow must be able to be universally applied, i.e. we must be willing for everyone to follow that rule. A contemporary deontological approach can be found in the work of the legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin.  
      Utilitarianism 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Mill believed law should create happiness.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Utilitarianism
       
      
      
       See also: Lysander Spooner
       
      Utilitarianism is the view that the laws should be crafted so as to produce the best consequences for the greatest number of people. Historically, utilitarian thinking about law has been associated with the philosopher Jeremy Bentham. John Stuart Mill was a pupil of Bentham's and was the torch bearer for utilitarian philosophy throughout the late nineteenth century. In contemporary legal theory, the utilitarian approach is frequently championed by scholars who work in the law and economics tradition.  
      John Rawls 
      
      
       Main articles: John Rawls and A Theory of Justice
       
      John Rawls was an American philosopher; a professor of political philosophy at Harvard University; and author of A Theory of Justice (1971), Political Liberalism, Justice as Fairness: A Restatement, and The Law of Peoples. He is widely considered one of the most important English-language political philosophers of the 20th century. His theory of justice uses a method called "original position" to ask us which principles of justice we would choose to regulate the basic institutions of our society if we were behind a "veil of ignorance". Imagine we do not know who we are—our race, sex, wealth, status, class, or any distinguishing feature—so that we would not be biased in our own favour. Rawls argued from this "original position" that we would choose exactly the same political liberties for everyone, like freedom of speech, the right to vote, and so on. Also, we would choose a system where there is only inequality because that produces incentives enough for the economic well-being of all society, especially the poorest. This is Rawls's famous "difference principle". Justice is fairness, in the sense that the fairness of the original position of choice guarantees the fairness of the principles chosen in that position. 
      There are many other normative approaches to the philosophy of law, including critical legal studies and libertarian theories of law.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Analytical jurisprudence 
        Artificial intelligence and law 
        Brocard (law) 
        Cautelary jurisprudence 
        Comparative law 
        Constitution 
        Constitutional law 
        Constitutionalism 
        Constitutional economics 
        Critical legal studies 
        Critical race theory 
        Critical rationalism 
        Defeasible reasoning 
        Divine law 
        Feminist jurisprudence 
        Feminist legal theory 
        Fiqh 
        International legal theory 
        Judicial activism 
        Justice 
        Law and economics 
        Law and literature 
        Legal formalism 
        Legal history 
        Legalism 
        Legal pluralism 
        Legal positivism 
        Legal realism 
        Legal science 
        Libertarian theories of law 
        Living Constitution 
        Originalism 
        Natural law 
        New legal realism 
        Political jurisprudence 
        Postmodernist jurisprudence 
        Publius Juventius Celsus 
        Philosophy of law 
        Rule of law 
        Rule according to higher law 
        Sociological jurisprudence 
        Sociology of law 
        Strict interpretation 
        Virtue jurisprudence
        
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ LII Staff (6 August 2007). "Jurisprudence". LII / Legal Information Institute. Retrieved 22 September 2018.  
        ^ 
          Garner, Bryan A. (2009). Black's law dictionary (9th&nbsp;ed.). Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA: West. pp.&nbsp;Jurisprudence entry. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-314-19949-2.  
        ^ a b Shiner, "Philosophy of Law", Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy  
        ^ a b See H L A Hart, 'Positivism and the Separation of Law and Morals' (1958) 71 Harv. L. Rev. 593  
        ^ Soper, "Legal Positivism", Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy  
        ^ 
          "jurisprudence - Wiktionary". en.wiktionary.org. Retrieved 24 May 2019.  
        ^ Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition 1989  
        ^ 
          Katju, Markandey (27 November 2010). "Ancient Indian Jurisprudence" (PDF). Banaras Hindu University. Retrieved 11 April 2019.  
        ^ 
          Chang, Wejen (Spring 2010). "Classical Chinese Jurisprudence and the Development of the Chinese Legal System". Tsinghua China Law Review. 2 (2). Retrieved 27 June 2019.  
        ^ 
          The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Law and Legal Theory. Golding, Martin P. (Martin Philip), 1930-, Edmundson, William A. (William Atkins), 1948-, Credo Reference. Malden, Mass.: Blackwell Pub. 2013. ISBN&nbsp;9781782683131. OCLC&nbsp;841495455.}: CS1 maint: others (link)  
        ^ Shellens, "Aristotle on Natural Law."  
        ^ Jaffa, Thomism and Aristotelianism.  
        ^ H. Rackham, trans., Nicomachean Ethics, Loeb Classical Library; J. A. K. Thomson, trans. (revised by Hugh Tedennick), Nicomachean Ethics, Penguin Classics.  
        ^ Joe Sachs, trans., Nicomachean Ethics, Focus Publishing  
        ^ "Nicomachean Ethics" Bk. II ch. 6  
        ^ Terrence Irwin, trans. Nicomachean Ethics, 2nd Ed., Hackett Publishing  
        ^ a b Nicomachean Ethics, Bk. V, ch. 3  
        ^ "Nicomachean Ethics", Bk. V, ch. 1  
        ^ Nicomachean Ethics, Bk. V, ch. 7.  
        ^ Rhetoric 1373b2–8.  
        ^ Shellens, "Aristotle on Natural Law," 75–81  
        ^ "Natural Law," International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences.  
        ^ 
          "Greek Theory of Natural Law".  
        ^ Louis Pojman, Ethics (Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing Company, 1995)  
        ^ 
          "Summa Theologica".  
        ^ e.g. James Brown Scott, cited in Cavallar, The Rights of Strangers: theories of international hospitality, the global community, and political justice since Vitoria, p.164  
        ^ Koskenniemi: "International Law and raison d'état: Rethinking the Prehistory of International Law", in Kingsbury &amp; Strausmann, The Roman Foundations of the Law of Nations, pp. 297–339  
        ^ 
          Finnis, John (1980). Natural Law and Natural Rights. Oxford: Clarendon Press. pp.&nbsp;18–19.  
        ^ David Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature (1739) Etext Archived 20 August 2006 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ Friedrich Carl von Savigny, On the Vocation of Our Age for Legislation and Jurisprudence (Abraham A. Hayward trans., 1831)  
        ^ For full discussion see Cotterrell 2018  
        ^ 
          Green, Leslie (Spring 2018). "Legal Positivism". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.  
        ^ 
          Murphy, Mark C. (2006). Philosophy of law: the fundamentals. Malden, MA: Blackwell. pp.&nbsp;132–135. ISBN&nbsp;9781405129466. OCLC&nbsp;62281976.  
        ^ 
          Himma, Kenneth Einar. "Legal Positivism". The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 31 May 2019.  
        ^ 
          Martinich, A.P. (2013). Hobbes. New York: Routledge. p.&nbsp;54. ISBN&nbsp;9781135180799.  
        ^ 
          Hobbes, Thomas (1668). "Of the Natural Condition of Mankind". In Curley, Edwin (ed.). Leviathan: With selected variants from the Latin edition of 1668. Hackett Publishing. p.&nbsp;76. ISBN&nbsp;9781603844857.  
        ^ 
          Austin, John (1832). The province of jurisprudence determined&nbsp;; and, the uses of the study of jurisprudence. Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Pub. p.&nbsp;184. ISBN&nbsp;0872204332. OCLC&nbsp;39539515.  
        ^ John Austin, The Providence of Jurisprudence Determined (1831)  
        ^ 
          Hart, H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. (2012). The Concept of Law (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;79–99.  
        ^ a b 
          Hart, H.&nbsp;L.&nbsp;A. (2012). The Concept of Law (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;81.  
        ^ 
          "The University of Edinburgh". Archived from the original on 1 June 2006. Retrieved 24 May 2006.  
        ^ 
          Raz, Joseph (1979). The Authority of Law: Essays on Law and Morality. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;45. ISBN&nbsp;9780199573561.  
        ^ a b 
          Raz, Joseph (1979). The Authority of Law: Essays on Law and Morality. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;47. ISBN&nbsp;9780199573561.  
        ^ 
          Raz, Joseph (1979). The Authority of Law: Essays on Law and Morality. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;47–48. ISBN&nbsp;9780199573561.  
        ^ ch. 2, Joseph Raz, The Authority of Law (1979)  
        ^ 
          Leiter, Brian (December 1997). "Rethinking Legal Realism: Toward a Naturalized Jurisprudence". Texas Law Review. 76: 268.  
        ^ 
          Holmes Jr., O.W. (1881). The Common Law. Boston: Little, Brown, and Co. p.&nbsp;1.  
        ^ 
          Langdell, C.C. (1871). A Selection of Cases on the Law of Contracts. Boston: Little, Brown, and Co. pp.&nbsp;vi.  
        ^ 
          Holmes, O.W. (1897). "The Path of the Law". Harvard Law Review. 10 (8): 457–478. doi:10.2307/1322028. JSTOR&nbsp;1322028.  
        ^ "Jurisprudence". West's Encyclopedia of American Law. Ed. Jeffrey Lehman, Shirelle Phelps. Detroit: Thomson/Gale, 2005.  
        ^ 
          Schauer, Frederick (2009). Thinking Like a Lawyer. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. pp.&nbsp;124 n.1. ISBN&nbsp;9780674032705.  
        ^ 
          Olivecrona, Karl (1971). Law as Fact. London: Stevens &amp; Sons. pp.&nbsp;vii. ISBN&nbsp;978-0420432506.  
        ^ a b Kristoffel Grechenig &amp; Martin Gelter, The Transatlantic Divergence in Legal Thought: American Law and Economics vs. German Doctrinalism, Hastings International and Comparative Law Review 2008, vol. 31, pp. 295–360.  
        ^ Alan Hunt, "The Theory of Critical Legal Studies," Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 6, No. 1 (1986): 1-45, esp. 1, 5. See . DOI, 10.1093/ojls/6.1.1.  
        ^ Moore, "Critical Legal Studies", Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy  
        ^ Reinhold Zippelius, Rechtsphilosophie, 6. Aufl. 2011 Vorwort.  
        ^ Brooks, "Review of Dworkin and His Critics with Replies by Dworkin", Modern Law Review, vol. 69 no. 6  
        ^ Ronald Dworkin, Law's Empire (1986) Harvard University Press  
        ^ 
          Wexler, David B; Perlin, Michael L; Vols, Michel; et&nbsp;al. (December 2016). "Editorial: Current Issues in Therapeutic Jurisprudence". QUT Law Review. 16 (3): 1–3. doi:10.5204/qutlr.v16i3.692. ISSN&nbsp;2201-7275.  
        ^ Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Language, p. 378 (2d Coll. Ed. 1978).  
        ^ see, Utilitarianism Archived 5 May 2007 at the Wayback Machine at Metalibri Digital Library  
        ^ 
          Nussbaum, Martha (20 July 2001). "The Enduring Significance of John Rawls" (PDF). The Chronicle of Higher Education. John Rawls, who turned 80 this year, is the most distinguished moral and political philosopher of our age.  
        ^ 
          Dorf, Michael C. (11 December 2002). "In Praise of John Rawls, The Man Who Made Moral Philosophy Respectable Again – And Whose Views Also Profoundly Informed American Legal Thought". FindLaw. Rawls remained the most important American philosopher since John Dewey.  
        ^ 
          Jedediah, Purdy (29 October 2019). "What John Rawls Missed". The New Republic. John Rawls, who died in 2002, was the most influential American philosopher of the twentieth century.  
       
       
      References 
      
       Hastings International and Comparative Law Review 2008, vol. 31, pp. 295–36.
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Austin, John (1831). The Province of Jurisprudence Determined. 
       Cotterrell, R. (1995). Law's Community: Legal Theory in Sociological Perspective. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
       Cotterrell, R. (2003). The Politics of Jurisprudence: A Critical Introduction to Legal Philosophy, 2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
       Cotterrell, R. (2018). Sociological Jurisprudence: Juristic Thought and Social Inquiry. New York/London: Routledge. 
       Freeman, M. D. A. (2014). Lloyd's Introduction to Jurisprudence. 9th ed. London: Sweet and Maxwell. 
       
        Hart, H. L. A. (1994) . The Concept of Law (2nd (with postscript)&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-876122-8. 
       Hartzler, H. Richard (1976). Justice, Legal Systems, and Social Structure. Port Washington, NY: Kennikat Press. 
       
        Engle, Eric (July 2010). Lex Naturalis, Ius Naturalis: Law as Positive Reasoning &amp; Natural Rationality. Eric Engle. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-9807318-4-2. 
       Hutchinson, Allan C., ed. (1989). Critical Legal Studies. Totowa, NJ: Rowman &amp; Littlefield. 
       Kempin Jr., Frederick G. (1963). Legal History: Law and Social Change. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. 
       Llewellyn, Karl N. (1986). Karl N. Llewellyn on Legal Realism. Birmingham, AL: Legal Classics Library. (Contains penetrating classic "The Bramble Bush" on nature of law). 
       Murphy, Cornelius F. (1977). Introduction to Law, Legal Process, and Procedure. St. Paul, MN: West Publishing. 
       Rawls, John (1999). A Theory of Justice, revised ed. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. (Philosophical treatment of justice). 
       Wacks, Raymond (2009). Understanding Jurisprudence: An Introduction to Legal Theory Oxford University Press. 
       Washington, Ellis (2002). The Inseparability of Law and Morality: Essays on Law, Race, Politics and Religion University Press of America. 
       Washington, Ellis (2013). The Progressive Revolution, 2007–08 Writings-Vol. 1; 2009 Writings-Vol. 2, Liberal Fascism through the Ages University Press of America. 
       Zinn, Howard (1990). Declarations of Independence: Cross-Examining American Ideology. New York: Harper Collins Publishers. 
       Zippelius, Reinhold (2011). Rechtsphilosophie, 6th ed. Munich: C.H. Beck. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-406-61191-9 
       Zippelius, Reinhold (2012). Das Wesen des Rechts (The Concept of Law), an introduction to Legal Theory, 6th ed., Stuttgart: W. Kohlhammer. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-17-022355-4 
       Zippelius, Reinhold (2008). Introduction to German Legal Methods (Juristische Methodenlehre), translated from the tenth German Edition by Kirk W. Junker, P. Matthew Roy. Durham: Carolina Academic Press. 
       Heinze, Eric, The Concept of Injustice (Routledge, 2013) 
       Pillai, P. S. A. (2016). Jurisprudence and Legal Theory, 3rd Edition, Reprinted 2016: Eastern Book Company. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-93-5145-326-0
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up jurisprudence in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       John Witte Jr.: A Brief Biography of Dooyeweerd, based on Hendrik van Eikema Hommes, Inleiding tot de Wijsbegeerte van Herman Dooyeweerd (The Hague, 1982; pp.&nbsp;1–4, 132). Redeemer University College 
       LII Law about&nbsp;... Jurisprudence. 
       Lircocervo.it "L'Ircocervo. Rivista elettronica italiana di metodologia giuridica, teoria generale del diritto e dottrina dello stato" 
       The Case of the Speluncean Explorers: Nine New Opinions, by Peter Suber (Routledge, 1998.) Lon Fuller's classic of jurisprudence brought up to date 50 years later. 
       The Roman Law Library, incl. Responsa prudentium by Professor Yves Lassard and Alexandr Koptev. 
       Evgeny Pashukanis - General Theory of Law and Marxism. 
       Internet Encyclopedia: Philosophy of Law. 
       The Opticon: Online Repository of Materials covering Spectrum of U.S. Jurisprudence. 
       Foundation for Law, Justice and Society 
       Bibliography on the Philosophy of Law. Peace Palace Library 
       Norwegian Association for Legal Philosophy
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Jurisprudence
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Legal theory
          
            
            
             Critical legal studies 
             Comparative law 
             Economic analysis 
             Legal norms 
             International legal theory 
             Legal history 
             Philosophy of law 
             Sociology of law
             
           
         
         
          Philosophers
          
            
            
             Alexy 
             Allan 
             Aquinas 
             Aristotle 
             Austin 
             Bastiat 
             Beccaria 
             Bentham 
             Betti 
             Bickel 
             Blackstone 
             Bobbio 
             Bork 
             Brożek 
             Cardozo 
             Castanheira Neves 
             Chafee 
             Coleman 
             Del Vecchio 
             Diniz 
             Durkheim 
             Dworkin 
             Ehrlich 
             Feinberg 
             Fineman 
             Finnis 
             Frank 
             Fuller 
             Gardner 
             George 
             Green 
             Grisez 
             Grotius 
             Gurvitch 
             Habermas 
             Han 
             Hart 
             Hegel 
             Hobbes 
             Hohfeld 
             Hägerström 
             Jellinek 
             Jhering 
             Kant 
             Kelsen 
             Köchler 
             Kramer 
             Leoni 
             Llewellyn 
             Lombardía 
             Luhmann 
             Lundstedt 
             Lyons 
             MacCormick 
             Marx 
             Nussbaum 
             Olivecrona 
             Pashukanis 
             Perelman 
             Petrażycki 
             Pontes de Miranda 
             Posner 
             Pound 
             Puchta 
             Pufendorf 
             Radbruch 
             Rawls 
             Raz 
             Reale 
             Reinach 
             Renner 
             Ross 
             Rumi 
             Savigny 
             Scaevola 
             Schauer 
             Schmitt 
             Shang 
             Simmonds 
             Somló 
             Suárez 
             Tribe 
             Unger 
             Voegelin 
             Waldron 
             Walzer 
             Weber 
             Wronkowska 
             Ziembiński 
             Znamierowski
             
           
         
         
          Theories
          
            
            
             Analytical jurisprudence 
             Deontological ethics 
             Fundamental theory of Catholic canon law 
             Interpretivism 
             Legalism 
             Legal moralism 
             Legal positivism 
             Legal realism 
             Libertarian theories of law 
             Natural law 
             Paternalism 
             Utilitarianism 
             Virtue jurisprudence
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Dharma 
             Fa 
             Judicial interpretation 
             Justice 
             Legal system 
             Li 
             Question of law 
             Rational-legal authority 
             Usul al-Fiqh
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Law portal 
             Philosophy portal 
              WikiProject Law 
             WikiProject Philosophy 
             changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Law
           
         
         
          Core subjects
          
            
            
             Administrative law 
             Civil law 
             Constitutional law 
             Contract 
             Criminal law 
             Deed 
             Equity 
             Evidence 
             International law 
             Law of obligations 
             Private law 
             Procedure 
              
               Civil 
               Criminal
               
             Property law 
             Public law 
             Restitution 
             Statutory law 
             Tort
             
           
         
         
          Other subjects
          
            
            
             Agricultural law 
             Aviation law 
             Amnesty law 
             Banking law 
             Bankruptcy 
             Commercial law 
             Competition law 
             Conflict of laws 
             Construction law 
             Consumer protection 
             Corporate law 
             Cyberlaw 
             Election law 
             Energy law 
             Entertainment law 
             Environmental law 
             Family law 
             Financial law 
             Financial regulation 
             Health law 
             History of the legal profession 
             History of the American legal profession 
             Immigration law 
             Intellectual property 
             International criminal law 
             International human rights 
             International slavery laws 
             Jurimetrics 
             Labour 
             Law of war 
             Legal archaeology 
             Legal fiction 
             Maritime law 
             Media law 
             Military law 
             Nationality law 
             Probate 
              
               Estate 
               Will and testament
               
             Product liability 
             Pseudolaw 
             Public international law 
             Space law 
             Sports law 
             Tax law 
             Transport law 
             Trust law 
             Unenforced law 
             Women in law
             
           
         
         
          Sources of law
          
            
            
             Charter 
             Legal code / Statutory law 
             Constitution 
             Custom 
             Divine right 
              
               Divine law
               
             Human rights 
             Natural law 
              
               Natural and legal rights
               
             Case law 
              
               Precedent 
               Law reports
               
             Legal treatise 
             Regulations
             
           
         
         
          Law making
          
            
            
             Ballot measure 
             Codification 
             Decree 
              
               Edict 
               Executive order 
               Proclamation
               
             Legislation 
              
               Delegated legislation 
               Regulation 
               Rulemaking
               
             Promulgation 
             Repeal 
             Treaty 
              
               Concordat
               
             Statutory law 
              
               Statute 
               Act of Parliament 
               Act of Congress (US)
              
             
           
         
         
          Legal systems
          
            
            
             Civil law 
             Common law 
             Chinese law 
             Legal pluralism 
             Religious law 
              
               Canon law 
                
                 Catholic canon law
                 
               Hindu law 
               Jain law 
               Jewish law 
               Parsi law 
               Sharia
               
             Roman law 
             Socialist law 
             Statutory law 
             Xeer 
             Yassa
             
           
         
         
          Legal theory
          
            
            
             Anarchist 
             Contract theory 
             Critical legal studies 
             Comparative law 
             Expressive function 
             Feminist 
             Law and economics 
             Legal formalism 
             History 
             Libertarian 
             International legal theory 
             Principle of legality 
             Principle of typicality 
             Rule of law 
             Sociology
             
           
         
         
          Jurisprudence
          
            
            
             Adjudication 
             Administration of justice 
             Criminal justice 
             Court-martial 
             Dispute resolution 
             Fiqh 
             Lawsuit/Litigation 
             Legal opinion 
             Legal remedy 
             Judge 
              
               Justice of the peace 
               Magistrate
               
             Judgment 
             Judicial review 
             Jurisdiction 
             Jury 
             Justice 
             Practice of law 
              
               Attorney 
               Barrister 
               Counsel 
               Lawyer 
               Legal representation 
               Prosecutor 
               Solicitor
               
             Question of fact 
             Question of law 
             Trial 
             Trial advocacy 
             Trier of fact 
             Verdict
             
           
         
         
          Legal institutions
          
            
            
             Barristers' chambers 
             Bureaucracy 
             The bar 
             The bench 
             Civil society 
             Court 
             Court of equity 
             Election commission 
             Executive 
             Judiciary 
             Law enforcement 
             Legal education 
              
               Law school
               
             Legislature 
             Military 
             Police 
             Political party 
             Tribunal
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Law portal 
             Category 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social and political philosophy
           
         
         
          Ancient
          
            
            
             Aristotle 
             Augustine 
             Chanakya 
             Cicero 
             Confucius 
             Han Fei 
             Lactantius 
             Laozi 
             Mencius 
             Mozi 
             Origen 
             Philo 
             Plato 
             Plutarch 
             Polybius 
             Shang 
             Sun Tzu 
             Tertullian 
             Thucydides 
             Valluvar 
             Xenophon 
             Xunzi
             
           
         
         
          Medieval
          
            
            
             Alpharabius 
             Aquinas 
             Avempace 
             Averroes 
             Baldus 
             Bartolus 
             Bruni 
             Dante 
             Gelasius 
             al-Ghazali 
             Giles 
             Gratian 
             Gregory 
             Ibn Khaldun 
             John of Salisbury 
             Latini 
             Maimonides 
             Marsilius 
             Muhammad 
             Nizam al-Mulk 
             Ockham 
             Photios 
             Ibn Tufail 
             Wang
             
           
         
         
          Early modern
          
            
            
             Beza 
             Boétie 
             Bodin 
             Bossuet 
             Buchanan 
             Calvin 
             Duplessis-Mornay 
             Erasmus 
             Filmer 
             Grotius 
             Guicciardini 
             Harrington 
             Hayashi 
             Hobbes 
             Hotman 
             James 
             Leibniz 
             Locke 
             Luther 
             Machiavelli 
             Malebranche 
             Milton 
             Montaigne 
             More 
             Müntzer 
             Pufendorf 
             Sidney 
             Spinoza 
             Suárez
             
           
         
         
          18th–19th-century
          
            
            
             Bakunin 
             Bastiat 
             Bentham 
             Bolingbroke 
             Bonald 
             Burke 
             Comte 
             Condorcet 
             Constant 
             Cortés 
             Emerson 
             Engels 
             Fichte 
             Fourier 
             Franklin 
             Godwin 
             Hamann 
             Hegel 
             Herder 
             Hume 
             Jefferson 
             Kant 
              
               political philosophy
               
             Kierkegaard 
             Le Bon 
             Le Play 
             Madison 
             Maistre 
             Marx 
             Mazzini 
             Mill 
             Montesquieu 
             Nietzsche 
             Novalis 
             Paine 
             Renan 
             Rousseau 
             Royce 
             Sade 
             Schiller 
             Smith 
             Spencer 
             Spooner 
             de Staël 
             Stirner 
             Taine 
             Thoreau 
             Tocqueville 
             Vico 
             Vivekananda 
             Voltaire
             
           
         
         
          20th–21st-century
          
            
            
             Adorno 
             Ambedkar 
             Arendt 
             Aurobindo 
             Aron 
             Badiou 
             Baudrillard 
             Bauman 
             Benoist 
             Berlin 
             Bernstein 
             Butler 
             Camus 
             Chomsky 
             de Beauvoir 
             Debord 
             Deleuze 
             Dewey 
             Dmowski 
             Du Bois 
             Durkheim 
             Dworkin 
             Evola 
             Foucault 
             Fromm 
             Gandhi 
             Gehlen 
             Gentile 
             Gramsci 
             Guénon 
             Habermas 
             Hayek 
             Heidegger 
             Irigaray 
             Kautsky 
             Kirk 
             Kropotkin 
             Laclau 
             Lenin 
             Luxemburg 
             MacIntyre 
             Mansfield 
             Mao 
             Marcuse 
             Maritain 
             Maurras 
             Michels 
             Mises 
             Mouffe 
             Negri 
             Niebuhr 
             Nozick 
             Nursî 
             Oakeshott 
             Ortega 
             Pareto 
             Polanyi 
             Popper 
             Qutb 
             Radhakrishnan 
             Rand 
             Rawls 
             Röpke 
             Rothbard 
             Russell 
             Santayana 
             Sarkar 
             Sartre 
             Schmitt 
             Scruton 
             Searle 
             Shariati 
             Simmel 
             Skinner 
             Sombart 
             Sorel 
             Spann 
             Strauss 
             Sun 
             Taylor 
             Tucker 
             Voegelin 
             Walzer 
             Weber 
             Weil 
             Žižek
             
           
         
         
          Social theories
          
            
            
             Anarchism 
             Authoritarianism 
             Collectivism 
             Communism 
             Communitarianism 
             Conflict theories 
             Confucianism 
             Consensus theory 
             Conservatism 
             Contractualism 
             Cosmopolitanism 
             Culturalism 
             Elitism 
             Fascism 
             Feminist political theory 
             Gandhism 
             Hindu nationalism (Hindutva) 
             Individualism 
             Islam 
              
               Islamism
               
             Legalism 
             Liberalism 
             Libertarianism 
             Mohism 
             National liberalism 
             Republicanism 
             Social constructionism 
             Social constructivism 
             Social Darwinism 
             Social determinism 
             Socialism 
             Utilitarianism
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Critique of work 
             Jurisprudence 
             Philosophy and economics 
             Philosophy of education 
             Philosophy of history 
             Philosophy of love 
             Philosophy of social science 
             Political ethics 
             Social epistemology 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jurisprudence&amp;oldid=1070609565"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Jurisprudence
       Academic disciplines
       Law
       Legal ethics
       Philosophy of law
       Roman law
       Social philosophy
       Social sciences
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: others
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from July 2020
       Articles that may contain original research from June 2018
       All articles that may contain original research
       Articles needing additional references from June 2018
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Alemannisch
       العربية
       Արեւմտահայերէն
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       भोजपुरी
       Български
       Boarisch
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingue
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Kabɩyɛ
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Кыргызча
       ລາວ
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Nederlands
       नेपाली
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Олык марий
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Scots
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       Тоҷикӣ
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       Winaray
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 February 2022, at 10:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
