
 
  
   
  Legal history - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Legal history 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Interdisciplinary science that is both connected to the science of law as well as the science of history
       
       
      Legal history or the history of law is the study of how law has evolved and why it has changed. Legal history is closely connected to the development of civilisations and operates in the wider context of social history. Certain jurists and historians of legal process have seen legal history as the recording of the evolution of laws and the technical explanation of how these laws have evolved with the view of better understanding the origins of various legal concepts; some consider legal history a branch of intellectual history. Twentieth-century historians viewed legal history in a more contextualised manner - more in line with the thinking of social historians. They have looked at legal institutions as complex systems of rules, players and symbols and have seen these elements interact with society to change, adapt, resist or promote certain aspects of civil society. Such legal historians have tended to analyse case histories from the parameters of social-science inquiry, using statistical methods, analysing class distinctions among litigants, petitioners and other players in various legal processes. By analyzing case outcomes, transaction costs, and numbers of settled cases, they have begun an analysis of legal institutions, practices, procedures and briefs that gives a more complex picture of law and society than the study of jurisprudence, case law and civil codes can achieve.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Ancient world 
        2 Southern Asia 
        3 Eastern Asia 
        4 Canon law 
        5 Islamic law 
        6 European laws 
          
          6.1 Roman Empire 
          6.2 Middle Ages 
          6.3 Modern European law 
           
        7 African law 
        8 United States 
        9 See also 
        10 Notes 
        11 References 
        12 Further reading 
        13 External links 
        
       
      Ancient world 
      
      
       Main articles: Ma'at, Babylonian law, Ancient Greek law, and Leviticus
       
      
      
       See also: Urukagina, Hittite laws, and Ostracism
       
      Ancient Egyptian law, dating as far back as 3000 BC, was based on the concept of Ma'at, and was characterised by tradition, rhetorical speech, social equality and impartiality. By the 22nd century BC, Ur-Nammu, an ancient Sumerian ruler, formulated the first extant law code, consisting of casuistic statements ("if... then..."). Around 1760 BC, King Hammurabi further developed Babylonian law, by codifying and inscribing it in stone. Hammurabi placed several copies of his law code throughout the kingdom of Babylon as stelae, for the entire public to see; this became known as the Codex Hammurabi. The most intact copy of these stelae was discovered in the 19th century by British Assyriologists, and has since been fully transliterated and translated into various languages, including English, German and French. Ancient Greek has no single word for "law" as an abstract concept, retaining instead the distinction between divine law (thémis), human decree (nomos) and custom (díkē). Yet Ancient Greek law contained major constitutional innovations in the development of democracy.  
      Southern Asia 
      
      
       Main articles: Manu Smriti, Yajnavalkya Smriti, Arthashastra, Dharmasastra, and Fatawa-e-Alamgiri
       
      
      
       See also: Classical Hindu law, Classical Hindu law in practice, and Hindu law
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution for a country, containing 444 articles, 12 schedules, numerous amendments and 117,369 words
        
       
       
      Ancient India and China represent distinct traditions of law, and had historically independent schools of legal theory and practice. The Arthashastra, dating from the 400 BC, and the Manusmriti from 100 BCE were influential treatises in India, texts that were considered authoritative legal guidance. Manu's central philosophy was tolerance and pluralism, and was cited across South East Asia. During the Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent, sharia was established by the Muslim sultanates and empires, most notably Mughal Empire's Fatawa-e-Alamgiri, compiled by emperor Aurangzeb and various scholars of Islam. After British colonialism, Hindu tradition, along with Islamic law, was supplanted by the common law when India became part of the British Empire. Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore and Hong Kong also adopted the common law.  
      Eastern Asia 
      
      
       Main articles: Traditional Chinese law, Tang Code, and Great Qing Legal Code
       
      The eastern Asia legal tradition reflects a unique blend of secular and religious influences. Japan was the first country to begin modernising its legal system along western lines, by importing bits of the French, but mostly the German Civil Code. This partly reflected Germany's status as a rising power in the late nineteenth century. Similarly, traditional Chinese law gave way to westernisation towards the final years of the Qing dynasty in the form of six private law codes based mainly on the Japanese model of German law. Today Taiwanese law retains the closest affinity to the codifications from that period, because of the split between Chiang Kai-shek's nationalists, who fled there, and Mao Zedong's communists who won control of the mainland in 1949. The current legal infrastructure in the People's Republic of China was heavily influenced by soviet Socialist law, which essentially inflates administrative law at the expense of private law rights. Today, however, because of rapid industrialisation China has been reforming, at least in terms of economic (if not social and political) rights. A new contract code in 1999 represented a turn away from administrative domination. Furthermore, after negotiations lasting fifteen years, in 2001 China joined the World Trade Organization.  
      
       Yassa of the Mongol Empire
       
      Canon law 
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Part of a series on the
        
        
         Canon law of theCatholic Church
        
        
          
          
           
            Ius vigens (current law)
           
            
            
             1983 Code of Canon Law 
              
               Omnium in mentem 
               Magnum principium
               
             Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches 
             Ad tuendam fidem 
             Ex corde Ecclesiae 
             Indulgentiarum Doctrina 
             Pastor bonus 
              
               Pontificalis Domus
               
             Veritatis gaudium 
             Custom 
             Matrimonial nullity trial reforms of Pope Francis 
             Documents of the Second Vatican Council 
              
               Christus Dominus 
               Lumen gentium 
               Optatam totius 
               Orientalium ecclesiarum 
               Presbyterorum ordinis 
               Sacrosanctum concilium
               
             Precepts of the Church
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Legal history
           
           
            Jus antiquum (c. 33-1140) 
            
             Ancient Church Orders 
              
               Didache 
               The Apostolic Constitutions 
               Canons of the Apostles
               
             Collections of ancient canons 
              
               Collectiones canonum Dionysianae 
               Collectio canonum quadripartita 
               Collectio canonum Quesnelliana 
               Collectio canonum Wigorniensis
               
             Decretum Gelasianum 
             Symmachian forgeries 
             Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals 
              
               Donation of Constantine
               
             Gregorian Reform 
              
               Lay investiture controversy 
               Dictatus papae 
               Libertas ecclesiae 
               Plenitudo potestatis
              
             
            Jus novum (c. 1140-1563)  
            
             Corpus Juris Canonici 
              
               Decretum Gratiani 
                
                 Decretist 
                 Canon Episcopi 
                 Margaritae
                 
               Jus commune 
               Decretals of Gregory IX 
                
                 Decretalist
                 
               Regulæ Juris 
               Extravagantes 
               Liber Septimus
              
             
            Jus novissimum (c. 1563-1918)  
            
             Council of Trent 
             Benedictus Deus (Pius IV) 
             Tametsi 
             Apostolicae Sedis moderationi
             
            Jus codicis (1918-present)  
            
             1917 Code of Canon Law 
             Ecclesiae Sanctae 
             1983 Code of Canon Law
             
            Other  
            
             Contractum trinius 
             Papal judge-delegate 
             Right of option
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Eastern law
           
            
            
             Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches 
             Eastern Canonical Reforms of Pius XII 
             Nomocanon 
             Archeparchy 
              
               Eparchy
               
             Exarchate 
             Ordinariate for Eastern Catholic faithful 
             Protosyncellus
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Liturgical law
           
           
            Latin Church 
            
             General Roman Calendar 
              
               Ranking of liturgical days in the Roman Rite
               
             General Instruction of the Roman Missal 
              
               Code of Rubrics
               
             Sacrosanctum concilium 
             Mysterii Paschalis 
             Musicam sacram 
             Scripturarum thesaurus 
             Liturgiam authenticam 
             Quattuor abhinc annos 
             Ecclesia Dei 
             Summorum Pontificum 
             Magnum principium 
             Traditionis custodes 
             Red Mass 
             Holy Day of Obligation
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Sacramental law
           
            
            
             Communicatio in sacris 
             Ex opere operato 
             Omnium in mentem 
             Validity and liceity
             
            Sacraments  
            
             Holy Orders 
              
               Impediment (Catholic canon law) 
                
                 Abstemius 
                 Defect of birth
                 
               Obligation of celibacy 
               Nullity of Sacred Ordination 
                
                 Apostolicae curae
                 
               Dimissorial letters 
               Episcopal Co-Consecrators 
               Approbation (Catholic canon law)
               
             Confession 
              
               Penitential canons 
                
                 Paenitentiale Theodori
                 
               Seal of the Confessional 
               Internal and external forum 
                
                 Note on the importance of the internal forum and the inviolability of the Sacramental Seal
                 
               Apostolic Penitentiary 
               Canon penitentiary 
               Complicit absolution 
                
                 Sacramentum Poenitentiae
                
               
             Eucharist 
              
               Eucharistic discipline 
               Canon 915 
               Celebret 
               Mass stipend
              
             
            Sacramentals  
            
             Indulgence 
              
               Indulgentiarum doctrina
              
             
            Sacred places  
            
             Altars 
             Major basilica 
             Minor basilica 
             Oratory (chapel)
             
            Sacred times  
            
             Feast days 
             Fast days and abstinence 
              
               Paenitemini
               
             Holy day of obligation
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Matrimonial law
           
            
            
             Canonical form (Latin Church) 
              
               Tametsi 
               Ne Temere 
               Banns of Marriage
               
             Declaration of Nullity 
              
               Dignitas connubii 
               Matrimonial Nullity Trial Reforms of Pope Francis 
               Vetitum
               
             Defender of the Bond 
             Impediments to Marriage 
              
               Affinity 
               Clandestinity 
               Impediment of crime 
               Disparity of cult 
               Ligamen 
               Public propriety
               
             Matrimonial dispensation 
              
               Ratum sed non consummatum 
               Sanatio in radice
               
             Natural marriage 
              
               Pauline privilege 
               Petrine privilege
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Supreme authority, particularchurches, and canonical structures
           
           
            Supreme authority of the Church 
            
             Roman Pontiff 
             College of Bishops
             
            Supra-diocesan/eparchal structures  
            
             College of Cardinals 
             Conference of bishops 
             Synod of Bishops
             
            Particular churches  
            
             Churches sui juris 
              
               Latin Church 
               Eastern Catholic Churches
               
             Local particular churches 
             Appointment of bishops 
              
               Abbacy nullius 
               Apostolic vicariate 
                
                 Apostolic vicar
                 
               Apostolic administration 
                
                 Apostolic administrator
                 
               Diocese/Archdiocese 
                
                 Aeque principaliter 
                 Cathedraticum 
                 In persona episcopi 
                 Diocesan Curia 
                  
                   Moderator of the Curia
                   
                 Chancery 
                 Deanery 
                  
                   Vicar forane
                  
                 
               Archeparchy 
               Eparchy 
                
                 Eparchal curia
                 
               Military ordinariate 
               Mission sui juris 
               Personal ordinariate 
                
                 Anglicanorum Coetibus
                
              
             
            Juridic persons  
            
             Parish 
              
               Team of priests in solidum 
               Collegiate church 
               Register 
               Lay trusteeism
               
             Roman Curia 
              
               Dicastery 
               Congregation 
               Pontifical council 
               Personal prelature 
                
                 Types of membership of Opus Dei
                
               
             Association of the Christian faithful 
             Vicar general 
             Quinquennial visit ad limina
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Jurisprudence
           
            
            
             Canonical coronation 
              
               Canonically crowned images
               
             Computation of time (Catholic canon law) 
             Custom 
             Delegata potestas non potest delegari 
             Derogation 
             Dispensation 
              
               Taxa Innocentiana
               
             Faculty 
             Indult 
             Impediment 
             Interpretation 
              
               Pontifical Council for Legislative Texts
               
             Jurisdiction 
             Peritus 
             Obreption &amp; subreption 
             Obrogation 
             Promulgation 
             Resignation of the Roman Pontiff 
             Sede vacante 
             Simony 
             Vacatio legis 
             Validity and liceity 
             Visitation 
              
               Apostolic visitor
              
             
            Philosophy, theology, and fundamental theory of Catholic canon law  
            
             Theology 
              
               Ecclesiology
               
             Treatise on Law 
              
               Determinatio
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Temporal goods (property)
           
            
            
             Benefice 
             Cathedraticum 
             Contract law 
             Mass stipend 
             Stole fee 
             Temporalities
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Law of persons
           
            
            
             Person (Catholic canon law) 
              
               Formal act of defection from the Catholic Church
               
             Canonical age 
             Emancipation 
             Exemption
             
            Clerics  
            
             Secular clergy 
             Regular clergy 
             Obligation of celibacy 
             Clerics and public office 
             Incardination and excardination 
             Laicization (dispensation) 
             Canonical faculties
             
            Office  
            
             Canonical provision 
              
               Canonical election
              
             
            Juridic and physical persons  
            
             Jus patronatus
             
            Associations of the faithful  
            Consecrated life
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Canonical documents
           
            
            
             Acta Apostolicae Sedis 
              
               Acta Sanctae Sedis
               
             Censor librorum 
              
               Imprimatur 
               Imprimi potest
               
             Notary 
              
               Protonotary apostolic
               
             Apostolic constitution 
             Canon 
             Concordat 
             Decree 
             Decretal 
             Encyclical 
             Motu proprio 
             Ordinance 
             Papal brief 
             Papal bull 
             Penitential 
             Positive law 
             Rescript 
             Parish register 
             Ecclesiastical Latin
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Penal law
           
            
            
             Canon 1324 
             Canon 1398 
             Censure (Catholic canon law) 
             De delictis gravioribus 
              
               Complicit absolution 
               Crimen sollicitationis
               
             Excommunication 
              
               List of excommunicable offences in the Catholic Church 
               List of people excommunicated by the Catholic Church 
                
                 List of excommunicated cardinals
                
               
             Interdict 
             Laicization (penal) 
             Latae sententiae 
             Lifetime of prayer and penance 
             Canonical admonitions 
             Ecclesiastical prison
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Procedural law
           
           
            Pars statica (tribunals &amp; ministers/parties) 
            
             Tribunals 
              
               Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura 
               Tribunal of the Roman Rota 
               Apostolic Penitentiary 
               Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith
               
             Ministers of Justice 
              
               Judicial Vicar/Officialis 
               Auditor
               
             Parties 
              
               Defender of the Bond 
               Procurator
              
             
            Pars dynamica (trial procedure)  
            
             Dignitas connubii (matrimonial causes) 
             Appeal as from an abuse 
             Presumption 
             Penal procedure 
              
               Vos estis lux mundi
              
             
            Canonization  
            
             Congregation for the Causes of Saints 
             Maiorem hac dilectionem 
             Advocatus Diaboli 
             Oblatio vitae 
             Positio 
             Beatification and canonization process in 1914
             
            Election of the Roman Pontiff  
            
             Current law 
              
               Universi Dominici gregis 
               Papal renunciation 
               Reforms of Pope Benedict XVI
               
             Historical 
              
               Cum proxime 
               Jus exclusivae 
               Papal appointment 
               Aeterni Patris Filius 
               Romano Pontifici eligendo 
               Ingravescentem aetatem 
               Ubi periculum 
               Quia propter
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Legal practice and scholarship
           
            
            
             List of legal abbreviations
             
            Academic degrees  
            
             Licentiate of Canon Law 
             Doctor of Canon Law 
             Doctor of both laws
             
            Journals and Professional Societies  
            
             Canon Law Society of America 
             The Jurist
             
            Faculties of canon law  
            
             School of Canon Law
             
            Canonists  
            
             Medieval 
              
               Gratian 
               Hostiensis 
               Jean Lemoine 
               Raymond of Penyafort 
               Rufinus 
               Johannes Teutonicus 
               Geoffrey of Trani 
               Burchard of Worms 
                
                 Brocard
                
               
             Modern &amp; Contemporary 
              
               Eugenio Corecco 
               John D. Faris 
               Pietro Gasparri 
               Ladislas Orsy 
               Edward N. Peters
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Law of consecrated life
           
            
            
             Solemn vow 
             Exclaustration 
             Manifestation of Conscience 
             Canonical erection of a house of religious 
              
               Pontifical right 
               Diocesan right
               
             Congregation for Institutes of Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life
             
            Institute of consecrated life  
            
             Religious institute 
              
               Congregation 
               Order 
                
                 Monasticism 
                 Canons regular 
                 Mendicant orders 
                 Clerics regular
                
               
             Secular institute 
              
               Cum Sanctissimus 
               Primo Feliciter 
               Provida Mater Ecclesia
              
             
            Society of apostolic life  
            
             Decretum laudis
            
           
           
        
        
          &nbsp;Catholicism portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Legal history of the Catholic Church
       
      
      
       Further information: Canon law of the Catholic Church
       
      The legal history of the Catholic Church is the history of Catholic canon law, the oldest continuously functioning legal system in the West. Canon law originates much later than Roman law but predates the evolution of modern European civil law traditions. The cultural exchange between the secular (Roman/Barbarian) and ecclesiastical (canon) law produced the jus commune and greatly influenced both civil and common law. 
      The history of Latin canon law can be divided into four periods: the jus antiquum, the jus novum, the jus novissimum and the Code of Canon Law. In relation to the Code, history can be divided into the jus vetus (all law before the Code) and the jus novum (the law of the Code, or jus codicis). Eastern canon law developed separately. 
      In the twentieth century, canon law was comprehensively codified. On 27 May 1917, Pope Benedict XV codified the 1917 Code of Canon Law. 
      John XXIII, together with his intention to call the Second Vatican Council, announced his intention to reform canon law, which culminated in the 1983 Code of Canon Law, promulgated by John Paul II on 25 January 1983. John Paul II also brought to a close the long process of codifying the Eastern Catholic canon law common to all 23 sui juris Eastern Catholic Churches on 18 October 1990 by promulgating the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches.  
      Islamic law 
      
      
       Main article: Sharia
       
      
      
       See also: Fiqh, Islamic ethics, and Early reforms under Islam
       
      One of the major legal systems developed during the Middle Ages was Islamic law and jurisprudence. A number of important legal institutions were developed by Islamic jurists during the classical period of Islamic law and jurisprudence. One such institution was the Hawala, an early informal value transfer system, which is mentioned in texts of Islamic jurisprudence as early as the 8th century. Hawala itself later influenced the development of the Aval in French civil law and the Avallo in Italian law.  
      European laws 
      Roman Empire 
      
      
       Main articles: Roman law and Byzantine law
       
      Roman law was heavily influenced by Greek teachings. It forms the bridge to the modern legal world, over the centuries between the rise and decline of the Roman Empire. Roman law, in the days of the Roman republic and Empire, was heavily procedural and there was no professional legal class. Instead a lay person, iudex, was chosen to adjudicate. Precedents were not reported, so any case law that developed was disguised and almost unrecognised. Each case was to be decided afresh from the laws of the state, which mirrors the (theoretical) unimportance of judges' decisions for future cases in civil law systems today. During the 6th century AD in the Eastern Roman Empire, the Emperor Justinian codified and consolidated the laws that had existed in Rome so that what remained was one twentieth of the mass of legal texts from before. This became known as the Corpus Juris Civilis. As one legal historian wrote, "Justinian consciously looked back to the golden age of Roman law and aimed to restore it to the peak it had reached three centuries before."  
      Middle Ages 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         King John of England signs the Magna Carta
        
       
       
      
      
       Main articles: Early Germanic law, Anglo-Saxon law, Lex mercatoria, and Early Irish law
       
      
      
       See also: Germanic tribal laws, Visigothic Code, Dōm, Blutgericht, Magna Carta, and Schwabenspiegel
       
      During the Byzantine Empire the Justinian Code was expanded and remained in force until the Empire fell, though it was never officially introduced to the West. Instead, following the fall of the Western Empire and in former Roman countries, the ruling classes relied on the Theodosian Code to govern natives and Germanic customary law for the Germanic incomers - a system known as folk-right - until the two laws blended together. Since the Roman court system had broken down, legal disputes were adjudicated according to Germanic custom by assemblies of learned lawspeakers in rigid ceremonies and in oral proceedings that relied heavily on testimony. 
      After much of the West was consolidated under Charlemagne, law became centralized so as to strengthen the royal court system, and consequently case law, and abolished folk-right. However, once Charlemagne's kingdom definitively splintered, Europe became feudalistic, and law was generally not governed above the county, municipal or lordship level, thereby creating a highly decentralized legal culture that favored the development of customary law founded on localized case law. However, in the 11th century, crusaders, having pillaged the Byzantine Empire, returned with Byzantine legal texts including the Justinian Code, and scholars at the University of Bologna were the first to use them to interpret their own customary laws. Medieval European legal scholars began researching the Roman law and using its concepts and prepared the way for the partial resurrection of Roman law as the modern civil law in a large part of the world. There was, however, a great deal of resistance so that civil law rivaled customary law for much of the late Middle Ages. 
      After the Norman conquest of England, which introduced Norman legal concepts into medieval England, the English King's powerful judges developed a body of precedent that became the common law. In particular, Henry II instituted legal reforms and developed a system of royal courts administered by a small number of judges who lived in Westminster and traveled throughout the kingdom. Henry II also instituted the Assize of Clarendon in 1166, which allowed for jury trials and reduced the number of trials by combat. Louis IX of France also undertook major legal reforms and, inspired by ecclesiastical court procedure, extended Canon-law evidence and inquisitorial-trial systems to the royal courts. Also, judges no longer moved on circuits becoming fixed to their jurisdictions, and jurors were nominated by parties to the legal dispute rather than by the sheriff. In addition, by the 10th century, the Law Merchant, first founded on Scandinavian trade customs, then solidified by the Hanseatic League, took shape so that merchants could trade using familiar standards, rather than the many splintered types of local law. A precursor to modern commercial law, the Law Merchant emphasised the freedom of contract and alienability of property.  
      Modern European law 
      
      
       Main articles: Napoleonic code, Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, English law, and Francisco de Vitoria
       
      The two main traditions of modern European law are the codified legal systems of most of continental Europe, and the English tradition based on case law. 
      As nationalism grew in the 18th and 19th centuries, lex mercatoria was incorporated into countries' local law under new civil codes. Of these, the French Napoleonic Code and the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch became the most influential. As opposed to English common law, which consists of massive tomes of case law, codes in small books are easy to export and for judges to apply. However, today there are signs that civil and common law are converging. European Union law is codified in treaties, but develops through the precedent set down by the European Court of Justice.  
      African law 
      
      
       See also: Law in Africa
       
      The African law system is based on common law and civilian law. It was based on tribal customs and traditions before colonization took over their original system. The people listened to their elders and used their elders as the people to go to when disputes happened. They didn't keep written records, as their laws were often passed orally. During colonization, authorities in Africa developed an official legal system called the Native Courts. After colonialism, the major faiths that stayed were Buddhism, Hinduism, and Judaism.  
      United States 
      The United States legal system developed primarily out of the English common law system (with the exception of the state of Louisiana, which continued to follow the French civilian system after being admitted to statehood). Some concepts from Spanish law, such as the prior appropriation doctrine and community property, still persist in some US states, particularly those that were part of the Mexican Cession in 1848. 
      Under the doctrine of federalism, each state has its own separate court system, and the ability to legislate within areas not reserved to the federal government.  
      See also 
      
       Legal biography 
       Association of Young Legal Historians (AYLH) 
       Constitution of the Roman Republic
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "International law - Historical development". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2021-03-16.  
         ^ 
           "International law - Historical development". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2021-03-16.  
         ^ 
           "International law - Historical development". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2021-03-16.  
         ^ 
           Théodoridés. "law". Encyclopedia of the Archaeology of Ancient Egypt.* VerSteeg, Law in ancient Egypt  
         ^ Kelly, A Short History of Western Legal Theory, 5-6  
         ^ J.P. Mallory, "Law", in Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture, 346  
         ^ Ober, The Nature of Athenian Democracy, 121  
         ^ 
           "Study reveals origin of India's caste system".  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 255  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 276  
         ^ 
           Chapra, Muhammad Umer (2014). Morality and Justice in Islamic Economics and Finance. Edward Elgar Publishing. pp.&nbsp;62–63. ISBN&nbsp;9781783475728.  
         ^ 
           Jackson, Roy (2010). Mawlana Mawdudi and Political Islam: Authority and the Islamic State. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;9781136950360.  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 273  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 287  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 304  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 305  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 307  
         ^ Glenn, Legal Traditions of the World, 309  
         ^ Farah, Five Years of China WTO Membership, 263-304  
         ^ Dr. Edward N. Peters, CanonLaw.info, accessed Jul-1-2013  
         ^ Raymond Wacks, Law: A Very Short Introduction, 2nd Ed. (Oxford University Press, 2015) pg. 15.  
         ^ a b Della Rocca, Manual of Canon Law, pg. 13, #8  
         ^ 
           Badr, Gamal Moursi (Spring 1978). "Islamic Law: Its Relation to Other Legal Systems". The American Journal of Comparative Law. American Society of Comparative Law. 26 (2 ): 187–198 . doi:10.2307/839667. JSTOR&nbsp;839667.  
         ^ Kelly, A Short History of Western Legal Theory, 39  
         ^ As a legal system, Roman law has affected the development of law in most of Western civilization as well as in parts of the Eastern world. It also forms the basis for the law codes of most countries of continental Europe (
           "Roman law". Encyclopædia Britannica.).  
         ^ Gordley-von Mehren, Comparative Study of Private Law, 18  
         ^ Gordley-von Mehren, Comparative Study of Private Law, 21  
         ^ Stein, Roman Law in European History, 32  
         ^ Stein, Roman Law in European History, 35  
         ^ Stein, Roman Law in European History, 43  
         ^ Roman and Secular Law in the Middle Ages Archived 2011-09-27 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ Roman law  
         ^ 
           Makdisi, John A. (June 1999). "The Islamic Origins of the Common Law". North Carolina Law Review. 77 (5): 1635–1739. suggests that there may have been some importation of Islamic concepts as well, but others have shown that occasional similarities are more likely coincidence than causal.  
         ^ a b 
           Klerman D, Mahoney PG (2007). "Legal Origins" (PDF). Journal of Comparative Economics. 35 (2): 278–293. doi:10.1016/j.jce.2007.03.007. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-08-26. Retrieved 2009-09-04.  
         ^ Sealey-Hooley, Commercial Law, 14  
         ^ 
           Dainow, Joseph (1966). "The Civil Law and the Common Law: Some Points of Comparison". The American Journal of Comparative Law. 15 (3): 419. doi:10.2307/838275. ISSN&nbsp;0002-919X.  
         ^ 
           Joireman, Sandra Fullerton (December 2001). "Inherited legal systems and effective rule of law: Africa and the colonial legacy". The Journal of Modern African Studies. 39 (4): 571–596. doi:10.1017/S0022278X01003755. ISSN&nbsp;0022-278X.  
         ^ 
           Ndulo (2011). "African Customary Law, Customs, and Women's Rights". Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies. 18 (1): 87. doi:10.2979/indjglolegstu.18.1.87.  
         ^ 
           Read, James S. (1962). "The Future of Law in Africa. Record of Proceedings of the London Conference 28 December 1959–8 January 1960. Edited on behalf of the Conference by A. N. Allott. London: Butterworth &amp; Co. (Publishers) Ltd. 1960. vi and 58 pp. 7s. 6d. net". Journal of African Law. 6 (1): 65–65. doi:10.1017/s0021855300004265. ISSN&nbsp;0021-8553.  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
        Farah, Paolo (August 2006). "Five Years of China WTO Membership. EU and US Perspectives about China's Compliance with Transparency Commitments and the Transitional Review Mechanism". Legal Issues of Economic Integration. 33 (3): 263–304. SSRN&nbsp;916768. 
       
        Barretto, Vicente (2006). Dicionário de Filosofia do Direito. Unisinos Editora. ISBN&nbsp;85-7431-266-5. 
       
        Della Rocca, Fernando (1959). Manual of Canon Law. The Bruce Publishing Company. 
       
        Glenn, H. Patrick (2000). Legal Traditions of the World. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-19-876575-4. 
       Sadakat Kadri, The Trial: A History from Socrates to O.J. Simpson, HarperCollins 2005. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-00-711121-5 
       
        Kelly, J.M. (1992). A Short History of Western Legal Theory. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-19-876244-5. 
       
        Gordley, James R.; von Mehren; Arthur Taylor (2006). An Introduction to the Comparative Study of Private Law. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-68185-8. 
       
        Otto, Martin (2011). "Law". European History Online. Retrieved November 11, 2011. 
       
        Sealy, L.S.; Hooley, R.J.A. (2003). Commercial Law. LexisNexis Butterworths. 
       
        Stein, Peter (1999). Roman Law in European History. Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;32. ISBN&nbsp;0-521-64372-4. 
       Kempin, Jr., Frederick G. (1963). Legal History: Law and Social Change. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall.
       
      Further reading 
      
       The Oxford History of the Laws of England. 13 Vols. Oxford University Press, 2003–. (Six volumes to date: Vol. I (Canon Law and Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction from 597 to the 1640s), vol. II (871–1216), vol. VI (1483–1558), vols. XI–XIII (1820–1914)) 
       The Oxford International Encyclopedia of Legal History. Ed. Stanley N. Katz. 6 Vols. Oxford University Press, 2009. (OUP catalogue. Oxford Reference Online) 
       Potz, Richard: Islam and Islamic Law in European Legal History, European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2011, retrieved: November 28, 2011.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Legal history.
         
       
       
      
       The Legal History Project (Resources and interviews) 
       Some legal history materials 
       The Schoyen Collection 
       The Roman Law Library by Yves Lassard and Alexandr Koptev. 
       CHD Centre for Legal History - Faculty of Law, University of Rennes 1 
       Centre for Legal History - Edinburgh Law School 
       The European Society for History of Law 
       Collection of Historical Statutory Material - Cornell Law Library 
       Historical Laws of Hong Kong Online - University of Hong Kong Libraries, Digital Initiatives 
       Basic Law Drafting History Online -University of Hong Kong Libraries, Digital Initiatives
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Law
           
         
         
          Core subjects
          
            
            
             Administrative law 
             Civil law 
             Constitutional law 
             Contract 
             Criminal law 
             Deed 
             Equity 
             Evidence 
             International law 
             Law of obligations 
             Private law 
             Procedure 
              
               Civil 
               Criminal
               
             Property law 
             Public law 
             Restitution 
             Statutory law 
             Tort
             
           
         
         
          Other subjects
          
            
            
             Agricultural law 
             Aviation law 
             Amnesty law 
             Banking law 
             Bankruptcy 
             Commercial law 
             Competition law 
             Conflict of laws 
             Construction law 
             Consumer protection 
             Corporate law 
             Cyberlaw 
             Election law 
             Energy law 
             Entertainment law 
             Environmental law 
             Family law 
             Financial law 
             Financial regulation 
             Health law 
             History of the legal profession 
             History of the American legal profession 
             Immigration law 
             Intellectual property 
             International criminal law 
             International human rights 
             International slavery laws 
             Jurimetrics 
             Labour 
             Law of war 
             Legal archaeology 
             Legal fiction 
             Maritime law 
             Media law 
             Military law 
             Nationality law 
             Probate 
              
               Estate 
               Will and testament
               
             Product liability 
             Pseudolaw 
             Public international law 
             Space law 
             Sports law 
             Tax law 
             Transport law 
             Trust law 
             Unenforced law 
             Women in law
             
           
         
         
          Sources of law
          
            
            
             Charter 
             Legal code / Statutory law 
             Constitution 
             Custom 
             Divine right 
              
               Divine law
               
             Human rights 
             Natural law 
              
               Natural and legal rights
               
             Case law 
              
               Precedent 
               Law reports
               
             Legal treatise 
             Regulations
             
           
         
         
          Law making
          
            
            
             Ballot measure 
             Codification 
             Decree 
              
               Edict 
               Executive order 
               Proclamation
               
             Legislation 
              
               Delegated legislation 
               Regulation 
               Rulemaking
               
             Promulgation 
             Repeal 
             Treaty 
              
               Concordat
               
             Statutory law 
              
               Statute 
               Act of Parliament 
               Act of Congress (US)
              
             
           
         
         
          Legal systems
          
            
            
             Civil law 
             Common law 
             Chinese law 
             Legal pluralism 
             Religious law 
              
               Canon law 
                
                 Catholic canon law
                 
               Hindu law 
               Jain law 
               Jewish law 
               Parsi law 
               Sharia
               
             Roman law 
             Socialist law 
             Statutory law 
             Xeer 
             Yassa
             
           
         
         
          Legal theory
          
            
            
             Anarchist 
             Contract theory 
             Critical legal studies 
             Comparative law 
             Expressive function 
             Feminist 
             Law and economics 
             Legal formalism 
             History 
             Libertarian 
             International legal theory 
             Principle of legality 
             Principle of typicality 
             Rule of law 
             Sociology
             
           
         
         
          Jurisprudence
          
            
            
             Adjudication 
             Administration of justice 
             Criminal justice 
             Court-martial 
             Dispute resolution 
             Fiqh 
             Lawsuit/Litigation 
             Legal opinion 
             Legal remedy 
             Judge 
              
               Justice of the peace 
               Magistrate
               
             Judgment 
             Judicial review 
             Jurisdiction 
             Jury 
             Justice 
             Practice of law 
              
               Attorney 
               Barrister 
               Counsel 
               Lawyer 
               Legal representation 
               Prosecutor 
               Solicitor
               
             Question of fact 
             Question of law 
             Trial 
             Trial advocacy 
             Trier of fact 
             Verdict
             
           
         
         
          Legal institutions
          
            
            
             Barristers' chambers 
             Bureaucracy 
             The bar 
             The bench 
             Civil society 
             Court 
             Court of equity 
             Election commission 
             Executive 
             Judiciary 
             Law enforcement 
             Legal education 
              
               Law school
               
             Legislature 
             Military 
             Police 
             Political party 
             Tribunal
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Law portal 
             Category 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Historical Dictionary of Switzerland
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Legal_history&amp;oldid=1044751430"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Legal history
       Jurisprudence
       Academic disciplines
       History of science by discipline
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Articles with long short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use British English from April 2014
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with HDS identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 16 September 2021, at 22:08&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
