
 
  
   
  Taxonomy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Taxonomy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Classification of discrete things, concepts, or groups, and the principles underlying such classification
       
      
      
       For the branch of biology, see Taxonomy (biology).
       
      
      
       "Scientific classification" redirects here. For other uses, see Scientific classification (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       
        
         Information science
        
        
          General aspects
        
        
          
           
           
            Access 
            Architecture 
            Behavior 
            Management 
            Retrieval 
            Seeking 
            Society 
            Knowledge organization 
            Ontology 
            Philosophy 
            Science and technology studies 
            Taxonomy
            
           
        
        
          Related fields and sub-fields
        
        
          
           
           
            Bibliometrics 
            Categorization 
            Censorship 
            Classification 
            Computer data storage 
            Cultural studies 
            Data modeling 
            Informatics 
            Information technology 
            Intellectual freedom 
            Intellectual property 
            Library and information science 
            Memory 
            Preservation 
            Privacy 
            Quantum information science
            
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Taxonomy is the practice and science of categorization or classification. The word finds its roots in the Greek language τάξις, taxis (meaning 'order', 'arrangement') and νόμος, nomos ('law' or 'science'). 
      A taxonomy (or taxonomical classification) is a scheme of classification, especially a hierarchical classification, in which things are organized into groups or types. Among other things, a taxonomy can be used to organize and index knowledge (stored as documents, articles, videos, etc.), such as in the form of a library classification system, or a search engine taxonomy, so that users can more easily find the information they are searching for. Many taxonomies are hierarchies (and thus, have an intrinsic tree structure), but not all are. 
      Originally, taxonomy referred only to the categorisation of organisms or a particular categorisation of organisms. In a wider, more general sense, it may refer to a categorisation of things or concepts, as well as to the principles underlying such a categorisation. Taxonomy organizes taxonomic units known as "taxa" (singular "taxon")." 
      Taxonomy is different from meronomy, which deals with the categorisation of parts of a whole.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Applications 
        2 History 
        3 Taxonomy in various disciplines 
          
          3.1 Natural sciences 
          3.2 Business and economics 
          3.3 Computing 
            
            3.3.1 Software engineering 
            3.3.2 Other uses of taxonomy in computing 
             
          3.4 Education and academia 
          3.5 Safety 
          3.6 Other taxonomies 
          3.7 Research publishing 
          3.8 Taxonomy for the web 
           
        4 Is-a and has-a relationships, and hyponymy 
        5 Research 
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 References 
        9 External links 
        
       
      Applications 
      Wikipedia categories illustrate a taxonomy, and a full taxonomy of Wikipedia categories can be extracted by automatic means. As of 2009, it has been shown that a manually-constructed taxonomy, such as that of computational lexicons like WordNet, can be used to improve and restructure the Wikipedia category taxonomy. 
      In a broader sense, taxonomy also applies to relationship schemes other than parent-child hierarchies, such as network structures. Taxonomies may then include a single child with multi-parents, for example, "Car" might appear with both parents "Vehicle" and "Steel Mechanisms"; to some however, this merely means that 'car' is a part of several different taxonomies. A taxonomy might also simply be organization of kinds of things into groups, or an alphabetical list; here, however, the term vocabulary is more appropriate. In current usage within knowledge management, taxonomies are considered narrower than ontologies since ontologies apply a larger variety of relation types. 
      Mathematically, a hierarchical taxonomy is a tree structure of classifications for a given set of objects. It is also named containment hierarchy. At the top of this structure is a single classification, the root node, that applies to all objects. Nodes below this root are more specific classifications that apply to subsets of the total set of classified objects. The progress of reasoning proceeds from the general to the more specific. 
      By contrast, in the context of legal terminology, an open-ended contextual taxonomy is employed—a taxonomy holding only with respect to a specific context. In scenarios taken from the legal domain, a formal account of the open-texture of legal terms is modeled, which suggests varying notions of the "core" and "penumbra" of the meanings of a concept. The progress of reasoning proceeds from the specific to the more general.  
      History 
      Anthropologists have observed that taxonomies are generally embedded in local cultural and social systems, and serve various social functions. Perhaps the most well-known and influential study of folk taxonomies is Émile Durkheim's The Elementary Forms of Religious Life. A more recent treatment of folk taxonomies (including the results of several decades of empirical research) and the discussion of their relation to the scientific taxonomy can be found in Scott Atran's Cognitive Foundations of Natural History. Folk taxonomies of organisms have been found in large part to agree with scientific classification, at least for the larger and more obvious species, which means that it is not the case that folk taxonomies are based purely on utilitarian characteristics. 
      In the seventeenth century the German mathematician and philosopher Gottfried Leibniz, following the work of the thirteenth-century Majorcan philosopher Ramon Llull on his Ars generalis ultima, a system for procedurally generating concepts by combining a fixed set of ideas, sought to develop an alphabet of human thought. Leibniz intended his characteristica universalis to be an "algebra" capable of expressing all conceptual thought. The concept of creating such a "universal language" was frequently examined in the 17th century, also notably by the English philosopher John Wilkins in his work An Essay towards a Real Character and a Philosophical Language (1668), from which the classification scheme in Roget's Thesaurus ultimately derives.  
      Taxonomy in various disciplines 
      Natural sciences 
      
      
       Main article: Taxonomy (biology)
       
      Taxonomy in biology encompasses the description, identification, nomenclature, and classification of organisms. Uses of taxonomy include:  
      
       Alpha taxonomy, the description and basic classification of new species, subspecies, and other taxa 
        
         Linnaean taxonomy, the original classification scheme of Carl Linnaeus 
         rank-based scientific classification as opposed to clade-based classification
         
       Evolutionary taxonomy, traditional post-Darwinian hierarchical biological classification 
       Numerical taxonomy, various taxonomic methods employing numeric algorithms 
       Phenetics, system for ordering species based on overall similarity 
       Phylogenetics, biological taxonomy based on putative ancestral descent of organisms 
       Plant taxonomy 
       Virus classification, taxonomic system for viruses 
       Folk taxonomy, description and organization, by individuals or groups, of their own environments 
       Nosology, classification of diseases 
       Soil classification, systematic categorization of soils
       
      Business and economics 
      Uses of taxonomy in business and economics include:  
      
       Corporate taxonomy, the hierarchical classification of entities of interest to an enterprise, organization or administration 
       Economic taxonomy, a system of classification for economic activity 
        
         Global Industry Classification Standard, an industry taxonomy developed by MSCI and Standard &amp; Poor's (S&amp;P) 
         Industry Classification Benchmark, an industry classification taxonomy launched by Dow Jones and FTSE 
         International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC), a United Nations system for classifying economic data 
         North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), used in Canada, Mexico, and the United States of America 
         Pavitt's Taxonomy, classification of firms by their principal sources of innovation 
         Standard Industrial Classification, a system for classifying industries by a four-digit code 
         United Kingdom Standard Industrial Classification of Economic Activities, a Standard Industrial Classification by type of economic activity
         
       Records management taxonomy, the representation of data, upon which the classification of unstructured content is based, within an organization. 
       XBRL Taxonomy, eXtensible Business Reporting Language 
       SRK taxonomy, in workplace user-interface design
       
      Computing 
      Software engineering 
      Vegas et al. make a compelling case to advance the knowledge in the field of software engineering through the use of taxonomies. Similarly, Ore et al. provide a systematic methodology to approach taxonomy building in software engineering related topics. 
      Several taxonomies have been proposed in software testing research to classify techniques, tools, concepts and artifacts. The following are some example taxonomies:  
      
       A taxonomy of model-based testing techniques 
       A taxonomy of static-code analysis tools
       
      Engström et al. suggest and evaluate the use of a taxonomy to bridge the communication between researchers and practitioners engaged in the area of software testing. They have also developed a web-based tool to facilitate and encourage the use of the taxonomy. The tool and its source code are available for public use.  
      Other uses of taxonomy in computing 
      
       Flynn's taxonomy, a classification for instruction-level parallelism methods 
       Folksonomy, classification based on user's tags 
       Taxonomy for search engines, considered as a tool to improve relevance of search within a vertical domain 
       ACM Computing Classification System, a subject classification system for computing devised by the Association for Computing Machinery
       
      Education and academia 
      Uses of taxonomy in education include:  
      
       Bloom's taxonomy, a standardized categorization of learning objectives in an educational context 
       Classification of Instructional Programs, a taxonomy of academic disciplines at institutions of higher education in the United States 
       Mathematics Subject Classification, an alphanumerical classification scheme based on the coverage of Mathematical Reviews and Zentralblatt MATH 
       SOLO taxonomy, Structure of Observed Learning Outcome, proposed by Biggs and Collis Tax
       
      Safety 
      Uses of taxonomy in safety include:  
      
       Safety taxonomy, a standardized set of terminologies used within the fields of safety and health care 
        
         Human Factors Analysis and Classification System, a system to identify the human causes of an accident 
         Swiss cheese model, a model used in risk analysis and risk management propounded by Dante Orlandella and James T. Reason 
         A taxonomy of rail incidents in Confidential Incident Reporting &amp; Analysis System (CIRAS)
        
       
      Other taxonomies 
      
       Military taxonomy, a set of terms that describe various types of military operations and equipment 
       Moys Classification Scheme, a subject classification for law devised by Elizabeth Moys
       
      Research publishing 
      Citing inadequacies with current practices in listing authors of papers in medical research journals, Drummond Rennie and co-authors called in a 1997 article in JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association for  
       
       a radical conceptual and systematic change, to reflect the realities of multiple authorship and to buttress accountability. We propose dropping the outmoded notion of author in favor of the more useful and realistic one of contributor.: 152   
       
      Since 2012, several major academic and scientific publishing bodies have mounted Project CRediT to develop a controlled vocabulary of contributor roles. Known as CRediT (Contributor Roles Taxonomy), this is an example of a flat, non-hierarchical taxonomy; however, it does include an optional, broad classification of the degree of contribution: lead, equal or supporting. Amy Brand and co-authors summarise their intended outcome as:  
       
       Identifying specific contributions to published research will lead to appropriate credit, fewer author disputes, and fewer disincentives to collaboration and the sharing of data and code.: 151   
       
      As of mid-2018, this taxonomy apparently restricts its scope to research outputs, specifically journal articles; however, it does rather unusually "hope to … support identification of peer reviewers". (As such, it has not yet defined terms for such roles as editor or author of a chapter in a book of research results.) Version 1, established by the first Working Group in the (northern) autumn of 2014, identifies 14 specific contributor roles using the following defined terms:  
      
       Conceptualization 
       Methodology 
       Software 
       Validation 
       Formal Analysis 
       Investigation 
       Resources 
       Data curation 
       Writing – Original Draft 
       Writing – Review &amp; Editing 
       Visualization 
       Supervision 
       Project Administration 
       Funding acquisition
       
      Reception has been mixed, with several major publishers and journals planning to have implemented CRediT by the end of 2018, whilst almost as many aren't persuaded of the need or value of using it. For example,  
       
       The National Academy of Sciences has created a TACS (Transparency in Author Contributions in Science) webpage to list the journals that commit to setting authorship standards, defining responsibilities for corresponding authors, requiring ORCID iDs, and adopting the CRediT taxonomy.  
       
      The same webpage has a table listing 21 journals (or families of journals), of which:  
      
       5 have, or by end 2018 will have, implemented CRediT, 
       6 require an author contribution statement and suggest using CRediT, 
       8 don't use CRediT, of which 3 give reasons for not doing so, and 
       2 are uninformative.
       
      The taxonomy is an open standard conforming to the OpenStand principles, and is published under a Creative Commons licence.  
      Taxonomy for the web 
      Websites with a well designed taxonomy or hierarchy are easily understood by users, due to the possibility of users developing a mental model of the site structure. 
      Guidelines for writing taxonomy for the web include:  
      
       Mutually exclusive categories can be beneficial. If categories appear several places, it's called cross-listing or polyhierarchical. The hierarchy will lose its value if cross-listing appears too often. Cross-listing often appears when working with ambiguous categories that fits more than one place. 
       Having a balance between breadth and depth in the taxonomy is beneficial. Too many options (breadth), will overload the users by giving them too many choices. At the same time having a too narrow structure, with more than two or three levels to click-through, will make users frustrated and might give up.
       
      Is-a and has-a relationships, and hyponymy 
      
      
       Main articles: Is-a and Hyponymy
       
      Two of the predominant types of relationships in knowledge-representation systems are predication and the universally quantified conditional. Predication relationships express the notion that an individual entity is an example of a certain type (for example, John is a bachelor), while universally quantified conditionals express the notion that a type is a subtype of another type (for example, "A dog is a mammal", which means the same as "All dogs are mammals"). 
      The "has-a" relationship is quite different: an elephant has a trunk; a trunk is a part, not a subtype of elephant. The study of part-whole relationships is mereology. 
      Taxonomies are often represented as is-a hierarchies where each level is more specific (in mathematical language "a subset of") the level above it. For example, a basic biology taxonomy would have concepts such as mammal, which is a subset of animal, and dogs and cats, which are subsets of mammal. This kind of taxonomy is called an is-a model because the specific objects are considered as instances of a concept. For example, Fido is-an instance of the concept dog and Fluffy is-a cat. 
      In linguistics, is-a relations are called hyponymy. When one word describes a category, but another describe some subset of that category, the larger term is called a hypernym with respect to the smaller, and the smaller is called a "hyponym" with respect to the larger. Such a hyponym, in turn, may have further subcategories for which it is a hypernym. In the simple biology example, dog is a hypernym with respect to its subcategory collie, which in turn is a hypernym with respect to Fido which is one of its hyponyms. Typically, however, hypernym is used to refer to subcategories rather than single individuals.  
      Research 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Comparison of categories of small and large populations
        
       
       
      Researchers reported that large populations consistently develop highly similar category systems. This may be relevant to lexical aspects of large communication networks and cultures such as folksonomies and language or human communication, and sense-making in general.  
      See also 
      
       All pages with titles containing Taxonomy 
        The dictionary definition of taxonomy at Wiktionary 
        The dictionary definition of classification scheme at Wiktionary 
       Categorization, the process of dividing things into groups 
       Classification (general theory) 
       Celestial Emporium of Benevolent Recognition, a fictional Chinese encyclopedia with an "impossible" taxonomic scheme 
       Conflation 
       Folksonomy 
       Gellish English dictionary, a taxonomy in which the concepts are arranged as a subtype–supertype hierarchy 
       Hypernym 
       Knowledge representation 
       Lexicon 
       Ontology (information science), formal representation of knowledge as a set of concepts within a domain 
       Philosophical language 
       Protégé (software) 
       Semantic network 
       Semantic similarity network 
       Structuralism 
       Systematics 
       Taxon, a population of organisms that a taxonomist adjudges to be a unit 
       Taxonomy for search engines 
       Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
       Typology (disambiguation)
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ Zirn, Cäcilia, Vivi Nastase and Michael Strube. 2008. "Distinguishing Between Instances and Classes in the Wikipedia Taxonomy" (video lecture). 5th Annual European Semantic Web Conference (ESWC 2008).  
        ^ S. Ponzetto and M. Strube. 2007. "Deriving a large scale taxonomy from Wikipedia". Proc. of the 22nd Conference on the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, Vancouver, B.C., Canada, pp. 1440-1445.  
        ^ S. Ponzetto, R. Navigli. 2009. "Large-Scale Taxonomy Mapping for Restructuring and Integrating Wikipedia". Proc. of the 21st International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 2009), Pasadena, California, pp. 2083-2088.  
        ^ Jackson, Joab. "Taxonomy's not just design, it's an art," Government Computer News (Washington, D.C.). September 2, 2004.  
        ^ Suryanto, Hendra and Paul Compton. "Learning classification taxonomies from a classification knowledge based system." University of Karlsruhe; "Defining 'Taxonomy'," Straights Knowledge website.  
        ^ Grossi, Davide, Frank Dignum and John-Jules Charles Meyer. (2005). "Contextual Taxonomies" in Computational Logic in Multi-Agent Systems, pp. 33-51.  
        ^ Kenneth Boulding; Elias Khalil (2002). Evolution, Order and Complexity. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;9780203013151. p. 9  
        ^ 
          Vegas, S. (2009). "Maturing software engineering knowledge through classifications: A case study on unit testing techniques". IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering. 35 (4): 551–565. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.221.7589. doi:10.1109/TSE.2009.13. S2CID&nbsp;574495.  
        ^ 
          Ore, S. (2014). "Critical success factors taxonomy for software process deployment". Software Quality Journal. 22 (1): 21–48. doi:10.1007/s11219-012-9190-y. S2CID&nbsp;18047921.  
        ^ 
          Utting, Mark (2012). "A taxonomy of model-based testing approaches". Software Testing, Verification &amp; Reliability. 22 (5): 297–312. doi:10.1002/stvr.456. S2CID&nbsp;6782211.  
        ^ 
          Novak, Jernej (May 2010). "Taxonomy of static code analysis tools". Proceedings of the 33rd International Convention MIPRO: 418–422.  
        ^ 
          Engström, Emelie (2016). "SERP-test: a taxonomy for supporting industry–academia communication". Software Quality Journal. 25 (4): 1269–1305. doi:10.1007/s11219-016-9322-x. S2CID&nbsp;34795073.  
        ^ 
          "SERP-connect".  
        ^ 
          Engstrom, Emelie (4 December 2019). "SERP-connect backend". GitHub.  
        ^ a b 
          Brand, Amy; Allen, Liz; Altman, Micah; Hlava, Marjorie; Scott, Jo (1 April 2015). "Beyond authorship: attribution, contribution, collaboration, and credit". Learned Publishing. 28 (2): 151–155. doi:10.1087/20150211. S2CID&nbsp;45167271.  
        ^ a b c 
          "CRediT". CASRAI. CASRAI. 2 May 2018. Archived from the original (online) on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 13 June 2018.  
        ^ 
          "Transparency in Author Contributions in Science (TACS)" (online). National Academy of Sciences. National Academy of Sciences. 2018. Retrieved 13 June 2018.  
        ^ 
          "OpenStand". OpenStand. Retrieved 13 June 2018.  
        ^ a b c 
          Peter., Morville (2007). Information architecture for the World Wide Web. Rosenfeld, Louis., Rosenfeld, Louis. (3rd&nbsp;ed.). Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly. ISBN&nbsp;9780596527341. OCLC&nbsp;86110226.  
        ^ Ronald J. Brachman; What IS-A is and isn't. An Analysis of Taxonomic Links in Semantic Networks. IEEE Computer, 16 (10); October 1983.  
        ^ 
          Brachman, Ronald (October 1983). "What IS-A is and isn't. An Analysis of Taxonomic Links in Semantic Networks". IEEE Computer. 16 (10): 30–36. doi:10.1109/MC.1983.1654194. S2CID&nbsp;16650410.  
        ^ 
          "Why independent cultures think alike when it comes to categories: It's not in the brain". phys.org. Retrieved 13 February 2021.  
        ^ 
          Guilbeault, Douglas; Baronchelli, Andrea; Centola, Damon (12 January 2021). "Experimental evidence for scale-induced category convergence across populations". Nature Communications. 12 (1): 327. Bibcode:2021NatCo..12..327G. doi:10.1038/s41467-020-20037-y. ISSN&nbsp;2041-1723. PMC&nbsp;7804416. PMID&nbsp;33436581.  Available under CC BY 4.0.  
       
       
      References 
      
       Atran, S. (1993) Cognitive Foundations of Natural History: Towards an Anthropology of Science. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-43871-1 
       Carbonell, J. G. and J. Siekmann, eds. (2005). Computational Logic in Multi-Agent Systems, Vol. 3487. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-28060-6 
       Malone, Joseph L. (1988). The Science of Linguistics in the Art of Translation: Some Tools from Linguistics for the Analysis and Practice of Translation. Albany, New York: State University of New York Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-887-06653-5; OCLC 15856738 
       *Marcello Sorce Keller, "The Problem of Classification in Folksong Research: a Short History", Folklore, XCV(1984), no. 1, 100-104. 
       Chester D Rowe and Stephen M Davis, 'The Excellence Engine Tool Kit'; 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-615-24850-9 
       
        Härlin, M.; Sundberg, P. (1998). "Taxonomy and Philosophy of Names". Biology and Philosophy. 13 (2): 233–244. doi:10.1023/a:1006583910214. S2CID&nbsp;82878147. 
       
        Lamberts, K.; Shanks, D.R. (1997). Knowledge, Concepts, and Categories. Psychology Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780863774911.
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Taxonomy at Wikimedia Commons 
        The dictionary definition of taxonomy at Wiktionary 
       Taxonomy 101: The Basics and Getting Started with Taxonomies
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Taxonomy&amp;oldid=1068945222"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Taxonomy
       Scientific nomenclature
       Hierarchy
       Ontology
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from February 2020
       Articles with short description
       Articles with long short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles containing Ancient Greek (to 1453)-language text
       Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009
       All articles containing potentially dated statements
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Alemannisch
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Basa Bali
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Basa Banyumasan
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Boarisch
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       ChiShona
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Gaelg
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Magyar
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Napulitano
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Novial
       Occitan
       Plattdüütsch
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Sunda
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       Zeêuws
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 January 2022, at 22:43&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
