
 
  
   
  Geomatics - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Geomatics 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Geographic data discipline
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Geoinformatics.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Geomatics"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (October 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Geodesy
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            Fundamentals
           
            
            
             Geodesy 
             Geodynamics 
             Geomatics 
             History
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts
           
            
            
             Geographical distance 
             Geoid 
             Figure of the Earth (radius and circumference) 
             Geodetic coordinates 
             Geodetic datum 
             Geodesic 
             Horizontal position representation 
             Latitude&nbsp;/ Longitude 
             Map projection 
             Reference ellipsoid 
             Satellite geodesy 
             Spatial reference system 
             Spatial relations 
             Vertical positions
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Technologies
           
            
            
             Global Nav. Sat. Systems (GNSSs) 
             Global Pos. System (GPS) 
             GLONASS (Russia) 
             BeiDou (BDS) (China) 
             Galileo (Europe) 
             NAVIC (India) 
             Quasi-Zenith Sat. Sys. (QZSS) (Japan) 
             Discrete Global Grid and Geocoding
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Standards (history)
           
           
            
             
              
                NGVD 29
                Sea Level Datum 1929
              
              
                OSGB36
                Ordnance Survey Great Britain 1936
              
              
                SK-42
                Systema Koordinat 1942 goda
              
              
                ED50
                European Datum 1950
              
              
                SAD69
                South American Datum 1969
              
              
                GRS 80
                Geodetic Reference System 1980
              
              
                ISO 6709
                Geographic point coord. 1983
              
              
                NAD 83
                North American Datum 1983
              
              
                WGS 84
                World Geodetic System 1984
              
              
                NAVD 88
                N. American Vertical Datum 1988
              
              
                ETRS89
                European Terrestrial Ref. Sys. 1989
              
              
                GCJ-02
                Chinese obfuscated datum 2002
              
              
                Geo URI
                Internet link to a point 2010
              
             
             
            
             International Terrestrial Reference System 
             Spatial Reference System Identifier (SRID) 
             Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM)
            
           
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A surveyor's shed showing equipment used for geomatics
        
       
       
      Geomatics is defined in the ISO/TC 211 series of standards as the "discipline concerned with the collection, distribution, storage, analysis, processing, presentation of geographic data or geographic information". Under another definition, it "consists of products, services and tools involved in the collection, integration and management of geographic data". It includes geomatics engineering (geodesy and geoinformatics engineering, formerly known as surveying engineering) and is related to geospatial science (also geospatial engineering and geospatial technology).  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History and etymology 
        2 Science 
        3 Engineering 
        4 Applications 
        5 Areas of knowledge 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        9 External links 
        
       
      History and etymology 
      The term was proposed in French ("géomatique") at the end of the 1960s by scientist Bernard Dubuisson to reflect at the time recent changes in the jobs of surveyor and photogrammetrist. The term was first employed in a French Ministry of Public Works memorandum dated 1 June 1971 instituting a "standing committee of geomatics" in the government. 
      The term was popularised in English by French-Canadian surveyor Michel Paradis in a The little Geodesist that could article in 1981 and in a keynote address at the centennial congress of the in April 1982. He claimed that at the end of the 20th century the needs for geographical information would reach a scope without precedent in history and that, in order to address these needs, it was necessary to integrate in a new discipline both the traditional disciplines of land surveying and the new tools and techniques of data capture, manipulation, storage and diffusion. 
      Geomatics includes the tools and techniques used in land surveying, remote sensing, cartography, geographic information systems (GIS), global-navigation satellite systems (GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, Compass), photogrammetry, geophysics, geography, and related forms of earth mapping. The term was originally used in Canada but has since been adopted by the International Organization for Standardization, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, and many other international authorities, although some (especially in the United States) have shown a preference for the term geospatial technology, which may be defined as synonym of "geospatial information and communications technology". 
      Although many definitions of geomatics, such as the above, appear to encompass the entire discipline relating to geographic information – including geodesy, geographic information systems, remote sensing, satellite navigation, and cartography –, the term is almost exclusively restricted to the perspective of surveying and engineering toward geographic information. Geoinformatics has been proposed as an alternative comprehensive term, but its use is only common in some parts of the world, especially Europe. 
      The related field of hydrogeomatics covers the area associated with surveying work carried out on, above or below the surface of the sea or other areas of water. The older term of hydrographics was considered too specific to the preparation of marine charts, and failed to include the broader concept of positioning or measurements in all marine environments. 
      A growing number of university departments which were once titled "surveying", "survey engineering" or "topographic science" have re-titled themselves using the terms "geomatics" or "geomatics engineering", while others have switched to program titles such as "spatial information technology", and similar names. 
      The rapid progress and increased visibility of geomatics since the 1990s has been made possible by advances in computer hardware, computer science, and software engineering, as well as by airborne and space observation remote-sensing technologies.  
      Science  
      
      
       See also: Geographic information science
       
      Geospatial science or spatial information science is an academic discipline incorporating fields such as surveying, geographic information systems, hydrography and cartography. Spatial science is typically concerned with the measurement, management, analysis and display of spatial information describing the Earth, its physical features and the built environment. 
      The term spatial science or spatial sciences is primarily used in Australia. Australian universities which offer degrees in spatial science include Curtin University, the University of Tasmania, the University of Adelaide,Melbourne University and RMIT University. 
      In the U.S., Texas A&amp;M University offers a bachelor's degree in Spatial Sciences and is home to its own Spatial Sciences Laboratory. Beginning in 2012, the University of Southern California started to place more emphasis on the spatial science branch of its geography department, with traditional human and physical geography courses and concentrations either not being offered on a regular basis or phased out. In place, the university now offers graduate programs strictly related to spatial science and its geography department offers a spatial science minor rather than the original geography major. 
      Spatial information practitioners within the Asia-Pacific region are represented by the professional body called the Surveying and Spatial Sciences Institute (SSSI).  
      Engineering  
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article may need to be cleaned up. It has been merged from Geomatics engineering.
          
        
       
       
      Geomatic(s) Engineering, Geodesy and Geoinformatics Engineering or Geospatial Engineering is a rapidly developing engineering discipline that focuses on spatial information (i.e. information that has a location). The location is the primary factor used to integrate a very wide range of data for spatial analysis and visualization. Geomatics engineers apply engineering principles to spatial information and implement relational data structures involving measurement sciences, thus using geomatics and acting as spatial information engineers. Geomatics engineers manage local, regional, national and global spatial data infrastructures. Geomatics Engineering also involves aspects of Computer Engineering, Software Engineering and Civil Engineering. 
      Geomatics is a field that incorporates several others such as the older field of land surveying engineering along with many other aspects of spatial data management ranging from data science and cartography to geography. Following the advanced developments in digital data processing, the nature of the tasks required of the professional land surveyor has evolved significantly in recent years, and for more and more people the term "surveying" no longer accurately covers the whole range of tasks that the profession deals with. As our societies become more complex, information with a spatial position associated with it becomes more critical to decision-making, both from a personal and a business perspective, and also from a community and a large-scale governmental viewpoint. 
      Therefore, the geomatics engineer can be involved in an extremely wide variety of information gathering activities and applications. Geomatics engineers design, develop, and operate systems for collecting and analyzing spatial information about the land, the oceans, natural resources, and manmade features. 
      The more traditional land surveying strand of geomatics engineering is concerned with the determination and recording of boundaries and areas of real property parcels, and the preparation and interpretation of legal land descriptions. The tasks more closely related to civil engineering include the design and layout of public infrastructure and urban subdivisions, and mapping and control surveys for construction projects. 
      Geomatics engineers serve society by collecting, monitoring, archiving, and maintaining diverse spatial data infrastructures. Geomatics engineers utilize a wide range of technologically advanced tools such as digital theodolite/distance meter total stations, Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment, digital aerial imagery (both satellite and air-borne), and computer-based geographic information systems (GIS). These tools enable the geomatics engineer to gather, process, analyze, visualize and manage spatially related information to solve a wide range of technical and societal problems. 
      Geomatics engineering is the field of activity that integrates the acquisition, processing, analysis, display and management of spatial information. It is an exciting and new grouping of subjects in the spatial and environmental information sciences with a broad range of employment opportunities as well as offering challenging pure and applied research problems in a vast range of interdisciplinary fields. 
      In different schools and in different countries the same education curriculum is administered with the name surveying in some, and in others with the names geomatics, civil engineering surveying, geomatics engineering, geospatial (information) engineering, surveying engineering, or geodesy and geoinformatics. While these occupations were at one time often taught in civil engineering education programs, more and more universities include the departments relevant for geo-data sciences under informatics, computer science or applied mathematics. These facts demonstrate the breadth, depth and scope of the highly interdisciplinary nature of geomatics engineering. The job of geospatial engineer is well established in the U.S. military.  
      Applications 
      Application areas include:  
      
       Aeromagnetic surveys 
       Airborne geophysics 
       Air navigation services 
       Archaeological excavation and survey for GIS applications 
       Coastal zone management and mapping 
       Disaster informatics for disaster risk reduction and response 
       The environment 
       Infrastructure management 
       Land management and reform 
       Natural resource monitoring and development 
       Seismic Interpretation 
       Subdivision planning 
       Urban and regional planning 
       Oceanography 
       Meteorology 
       Parks 
       Resource Management 
       Climate Change/Environmental Monitoring
       
      Areas of knowledge 
      Geomatics integrates science and technology from both new and traditional disciplines:  
      
       Geodesy 
       Geodynamics 
       Global positioning system (GPS) or global navigation satellite system (GNSS) 
       Surveying (including land, cadastral, aerial, mining and engineering surveying) 
       Hydrography 
       Navigation 
       Location-based services 
       Cartography and digital mapping 
       Geographic information systems (GIS), spatial database management and geographic information technology (GeoIT) 
       Spatial analysis, spatial data mining and knowledge discovery, and spatial statistics 
       Computer-aided design (CAD) and scientific visualization 
       Geovisualization, Geovisual Analytics, Visual communication design, graphic design and multimedia technology 
       Remote sensing 
       Digital Earth 
       Image processing 
       Photogrammetry 
       Computer vision 
       Land information systems (LIS) 
       Land management, cadastre, real property law 
       Applications programming 
       Project management 
       Geoinformatics 
       Land Surveying 
       LIDAR 
       Digital terrain modelling
       
      See also 
      
      
       Main category: Geomatics
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ ISO/TR 19122:2004(en) Geographic information/Geomatics — Qualification and certification of personnel   
         ^ "About Us". Applied Geomatics Research Laboratory. Retrieved 2 April 2018.  
         ^ 
           "ACSG - Association canadienne des sciences géomatiques (Section Champlain) /// Des références utiles en géomatique". acsg-champlain.scg.ulaval.ca. Retrieved 2019-11-04.  
         ^ 
           Arrêté du 27 décembre 1994 relatif à la terminologie de la télédétection aérospatiale, retrieved 2019-11-04  
         ^ 
           Paradis, Michel (September 1981). "De l'arpentage à la géomatique". Le Géomètre Canadien (in French). 35 (3): 262.  
         ^ 
           Boehm, Richard G.; Mohan, Audrey (2010). "Geospatial Technology: Curricular Keystone of Applied Geography". International Journal of Applied Geospatial Research. 1 (1): 26–39. doi:10.4018/jagr.2010071602. ISSN&nbsp;1947-9654.  
         ^ 
           Scholten, H.J.; Velde, R.; van Manen, N. (2009). Geospatial Technology and the Role of Location in Science. GeoJournal Library. Springer Netherlands. p.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;978-90-481-2620-0. Retrieved 2022-01-28.  
         ^ 
           "Geomatics engineering &amp; geographic information systems (GIS)". University of Colorado Denver- College of Engineering. University of Colorado Denver. Retrieved October 3, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "White Mountains Community College- Spatial Information Technology Transcript Checklist". PDFFiller. PDFFiller. Retrieved October 3, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Queensland University of Technology, Undergratuate Program - Spatial Science (Surveying)". Archived from the original on 2008-07-19. Retrieved 2008-06-14.  
         ^ 
           "Curtin University - Spatial science courses". Archived from the original on 2015-09-10. Retrieved 2016-07-31.  
         ^ University of Tasmania, Centre for Spatial Information Science, Courses Archived 2008-07-25 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           "University of Adelaide, Major in Ecology and Spatial Science" (PDF). adelaide.edu.au. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 August 2014. Retrieved 2 April 2018.  
         ^ Melbourne University - Spatial Information Science  
         ^ 
           "Surveying and geospatial sciences - RMIT University".  
         ^ Texas A&amp;M University, Spatial Sciences Laboratory Archived 2008-09-05 at archive.today  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-11-24. Retrieved 2012-10-20.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ Surveying and Spatial Sciences Institute (SSSI)  
         ^ 
           "Geospatial Engineer Jobs (12Y)". goarmy.com. Retrieved 2 April 2018.  
         ^ 
           "12Y Geospatial Engineer - National Guard". www.nationalguard.com. Retrieved 2 April 2018.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Geomatics Canada Ottawa: Natural Resources Canada ISSN 1491-5480 
       
        Dermanis, Athanasios; Grün, Armin; Sansò, Fernando (2000). Geomatic Methods for the Analysis of Data in the Earth Sciences. New York: Springer. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-67476-4. 
       
        Kavanagh, Barry F. (2003). Geomatics. Prentice Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-130-32289-0. 
       Yvan Bédard, "Geomatics" in Karen Kemp (2008), Encyclopedia of Geographic Information Science, Sage.  
       Yvan Bédard (2007),“Geomatics”: 26 years of history already!, Geomatica, 61(3):269-272.  
       
        Gomarasca, Mario A. (2009). Basics of Geomatics. Springer. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-402-09014-1. 
        
         "Geomatics", Chap. 1 in Mario A. Gomarasca (2009) Basics of Geomatics, Springer.
         
       "Geomatics", sec. 1.3 in Mathias Lemmens (2011), Geo-information: Technologies, Applications and the Environment, Springer.  
       
        Ogaja, Clement (2016). Geomatics Engineering: A Practical Guide to Project Design. CRC Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-439-89511-5.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Geomatics.
         
       
       
      
       International Master's Program Geomatics at Karlsruhe University of Applied Sciences 
       Namibia's Geomatics Program 
       Bachelor of Science in Geomatics at Nicholls State University 
       Geomatics program at the University of Florida 
       Canada's Northwest Territories Centre for Geomatics 
       UK's Environment Agency Geomatics Group 
       GIM International Lemmer, the Netherlands: Geodetical Information &amp; Trading Centre ISSN 1566-9076 
       (in French) Géomètres sans Frontières&nbsp;: Association de géometres pour aide au développement. 
       Geomatics at Curlie 
       School of Rural and Surveying Engineering at National Technical University of Athens (MEng)
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Geomatics&amp;oldid=1070670636"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Geomatics
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 French-language sources (fr)
       Webarchive template wayback links
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from October 2017
       Articles with permanently dead external links
       Webarchive template archiveis links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from October 2021
       All articles needing additional references
       Wikipedia articles needing clarification from August 2020
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from January 2022
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from April 2015
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with French-language sources (fr)
       Articles with Curlie links
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       भोजपुरी
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 February 2022, at 17:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
