
 
  
   
  Public law - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Public law 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Part of the law
       
        
      
      
       This article is about the area of law. For a "public law" in the United States, see Act of Congress. For the journal, see Public Law (journal). For all other uses, see Public law (disambiguation).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Public law is the part of law that governs relations between legal persons and a government, between different institutions within a state, between different branches of governments, as well as relationships between persons that are of direct concern to society. Public law comprises constitutional law, administrative law, tax law and criminal law, as well as all procedural law. Laws concerning relationships between individuals belong to private law. 
      The relationships public law governs are asymmetric and inequalized. Government bodies (central or local) can make decisions about the rights of persons. However, as a consequence of the rule-of-law doctrine, authorities may only act within the law (secundum et intra legem). The government must obey the law. For example, a citizen unhappy with a decision of an administrative authority can ask a court for judicial review. 
      The distinction between public law and private law dates back to Roman law, where the Roman jurist Ulpian (c. 170 – 228) first noted it. It was later adopted to understand the legal systems both of countries that adhere to the civil-law tradition, and of those that adhere to common-law tradition. 
      The borderline between public law and private law is not always clear. Law as a whole cannot neatly be divided into "law for the State" and "law for everyone else". As such, the distinction between public and private law is largely functional rather than factual, classifying laws according to which domain the activities, participants, and principle concerns involved best fit into. This has given rise to attempts to establish a theoretical understanding for the basis of public law.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History of public law 
        2 Public law in civil law and common law jurisdictions 
        3 Areas of public law 
          
          3.1 Constitutional law 
          3.2 Administrative law 
          3.3 Criminal law 
          3.4 Tax law 
           
        4 Theoretical distinction between private and public law 
        5 See also 
        6 Notes 
          
          6.1 References 
           
        
       
      History of public law 
      The distinction between public and private law was first made by Roman jurist Ulpian, who argues in the Institutes (in a passage preserved by Justinian in the Digest ) that "ublic law is that which respects the establishment of the Roman commonwealth, private that which respects individuals' interests, some matters being of public and others of private interest." Furthermore, he defines public law as the law concerning religious affairs, the priesthood, and offices of the State. Roman Law conceived of the law as a series of relationships between persons and persons, persons and things, and persons and the State. Public law consisted of the latter of these three relationships. However, Roman lawyers devoted little attention to this area, and instead focussed largely on areas of private law. It was, however, of great importance in Teutonic society, as noted by German legal historian Otto von Gierke, who defined the Teutons as the fathers of public law. 
      Drawing a line between public and private law largely fell out of favor in the ensuing millennium, though, as Ernst Kantorowicz notes, Medieval saw a concern with the Roman conception of the res publica inherent in the legal fiction of the king's two bodies. However, legal philosophers during this period consisted largely of theologians who operated within the realm of Canon Law, and were instead concerned with distinctions between divine law, natural law, and human law. The "public/private" divide in law would not return until the 17th and 18th centuries. Through the emergence of the nation-state and new theories of sovereignty, notions of a distinctly public realm began to crystalize. However, the claims made by monarchs, and later parliaments, to an unrestrained power to make law spurred attempts to establish a distinctly private sphere that would be free from encroaching State power in return.  
      Public law in civil law and common law jurisdictions 
      
      
       See also: Magna Carta
       
      Traditionally, the division between public and private law has been made in the context of the legal systems found in Continental Europe, whose laws all fall within the tradition of civil law. However, the public/private divide does not apply strictly to civil law systems. Given public law's emphasis on aspects of the State that are true of all systems of government and law, common law legal systems acknowledge, even if they do so unconsciously, that actions which must be prohibited by the State need not necessarily be prohibited for private parties as well. As such, legal scholars commenting on common law systems, such as England and Canada, have made this distinction as well. 
      For many years, public law occupied a marginal position in continental European law. By and large, private law was considered general law. Public law, on the other hand, was considered to consist of exceptions to this general law. It was not until the second half of the twentieth century that public law began to play a prominent role in European society through the constitutionalization of private law, as well as the development of administrative law and various functional fields of law, including labor law, medical law, and consumer law. Though this began to blur the distinction between public and private law, it did not erode the former. Instead, it elevated public law from its once marginal state, with an acknowledgment that there are few, if any, areas of the law that are free from potential State intervention. In Italy, for example, the development of public law was considered a project of state-building, following the ideas of Vittorio Emanuele Orlando. Indeed, many early Italian public lawyers were also politicians, including Orlando himself. Now, in countries such as France, public law now refers to the areas of constitutional law, administrative law, and criminal law.  
      Areas of public law 
      Constitutional law 
      
      
       Main article: Constitutional law
       
      In modern states, constitutional law lays out the foundations of the state. Above all, it postulates the supremacy of law in the functioning of the state – the rule of law. 
      Secondly, it sets out the form of government – how its different branches work, how they are elected or appointed, and the division of powers and responsibilities between them. Traditionally, the basic elements of government are the executive, the legislature and the judiciary. 
      And thirdly, in describing what are the basic human rights, which must be protected for every person, and what further civil and political rights citizens have, it sets the fundamental borders to what any government must and must not do. 
      In most jurisdictions, constitutional law is enshrined in a written document, the Constitution, sometimes together with amendments or other constitutional laws. In some countries, however, such a supreme entrenched written document does not exist for historical and political reasons – the Constitution of the United Kingdom is an unwritten one.  
      Administrative law 
      
      
       Main article: Administrative law
       
      Administrative law refers to the body of law that regulates bureaucratic managerial procedures and defines the powers of administrative agencies. These laws are enforced by the executive branch of a government rather than the judicial or legislative branches (if they are different in that particular jurisdiction). This body of law regulates international trade, manufacturing, pollution, taxation, and the like. This is sometimes seen as a subcategory of civil law and sometimes seen as public law as it deals with regulation and public institutions  
      Criminal law 
      
      
       Main article: Criminal law
       
      Tax law 
      
      
       Main article: Tax law
       
      Tax law first became an area of public law during the 17th century, as a consequence of new theories of sovereignty that began to emerge. Until this point, taxes were considered gifts under the law, given to the State by a private donor – the taxpayer. It is now considered an area of public law, as it concerns a relationship between persons and the State.  
      Theoretical distinction between private and public law 
      The analytical and historical distinction between public and private law has emerged predominantly in the legal systems of continental Europe. As a result, German-language legal literature has produced extensive discussion on the precise nature of the distinction between public law and private law. Several theories have evolved, which are neither exhaustive nor mutually exclusive or separate. 
      The interest theory of public law emerges from the work of Roman jurist Ulpian, who stated "Publicum ius est, quod ad statum rei Romanae spectat, privatum quod ad singulorum utilitatem. (Public law is that, which concerns Roman state, private law is concerned with the interests of citizens.) Charles-Louis Montesquieu elaborates upon this theory in The Spirit of the Laws, published during the 18th century, wherein Montesquieu establishes a distinction between international (right of nations), public (political right), and private (civil right) law according to various actors interests and rights. There, he writes: “Considered as inhabitants of a planet so large that different peoples are necessary, they have laws bearing on the relation that these peoples have with one another, and this is the right of nations. Considered as living in a society that must be maintained, they have laws concerning the relation between those who govern and those who are governed, and this is the 
       political right. Further, they have laws concerning the relation that alI citizens have with one another, and this is the 
       civil right." 
      Criticisms of interest theory include the difficulty in establishing a clear distinction between private and public interest, if such a distinction does exist, and categorizing laws accordingly. 
      The subjection theory focuses on explaining the distinction by emphasizing the subordination of private persons to the state. Public law is supposed to govern this relationship, whereas private law is considered to govern relationships where the parties involved meet on a level playing field. However, some areas commonly considered private law also imply subordination, such as employment law. Moreover, legal proceedings wherein the State is a party may undermine the totality of the State's authority, and the degree to which private persons are subordinate to the State, if a Court finds in favor of a non-State party (see Carpenter v. United States, for example). 
      The subject theory is concerned with the position of the subject of law in the legal relationship in question. If it finds itself in a particular situation as a public person (due to membership in some public body, such as a state or a municipality), public law applies, otherwise it is private law. 
      A combination of the subjection theory and the subject theory arguably provides a workable distinction. Under this approach, a field of law is considered public law where one actor is a public authority endowed with the power to act unilaterally (imperium) and this actor uses that imperium in the particular relationship. In other words, all depends whether the public authority is acting as a public or a private entity, say when ordering office supplies. This latest theory considers public law a special instance. 
      There are areas of law that do not seem to fit into either public or private law, such as employment law – parts of it look like private law (the employment contract) while other parts look like public law (the activities of an employment inspectorate when investigating workplace safety). 
      The distinction between public and private law might purely academic, but it also affects legal practice. It has bearing on the delineation between competences of different courts and administrative bodies. Under the Austrian constitution, for example, private law is among the exclusive competences of federal legislation, whereas public law is partly a matter of state legislation.  
      See also 
      
       Social law
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ a b Elizabeth A. Martin (2003). Oxford Dictionary of Law (7th&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0198607563.  
        ^ a b 
          Forcese, Craig; Dodek, Adam; Bryant, Philip; Carver, Peter; Haigh, Richard; Liston, Mary; MacIntosh, Constance (2015). Public Law: Cases, Commentary and Analysis (Third&nbsp;ed.). Toronto, ON: Emond Montgomery Publishing Ltd. p.&nbsp;4. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55239-664-3.  
        ^ 
          Cherednychenko, Olha (April 18, 2007). Fundamental Rights, Contract Law, and Protection of the Weaker Party. Utrecht, Netherlands: Utrecht University Institute for Legal Studies. p.&nbsp;21. hdl:1874/20945.  
        ^ 
          Justinian; Watson, Alan (1985). The Digest of Justinian. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press. p.&nbsp;1. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8122-2033-9.  
        ^ Cherednychenko, p.&nbsp;21-22. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCherednychenko (help)  
        ^ 
          Cohen, Morris (1927). "Property and Sovereignty". Cornell Law Review. 13 (1): 8. Retrieved August 7, 2020.  
        ^ a b c Cherednychenko, p.&nbsp;22. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCherednychenko (help)  
        ^ 
          Kantorowicz, Ernst (May 10, 2016). The King's Two Bodies: A Study in Medieval Theology. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-16923-1.  
        ^ 
          Aquinas, Thomas (2000). Treatise on Law. Indianapolis, IN: Hacket Publishing Company. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-87220-548-2.  
        ^ 
          Horwitz, Morton (1982). "The History of the Public/Private Distinction". University of Pennsylvania Law Review. 130 (6): 1423–1428. doi:10.2307/3311976. JSTOR&nbsp;3311976. Retrieved June 28, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Murkens, Jo Eric Khushal (July 15, 2009). "The Quest for Constitutionalism in UK Public Law Discourse". Oxford Journal of Legal Studies. 29 (3): 427–455. doi:10.1093/ojls/gqp020. Retrieved June 29, 2020.  
        ^ Forcese et al.. sfn error: no target: CITEREFForcese_et_al. (help)  
        ^ Cherednychenko, p.&nbsp;22-23. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCherednychenko (help)  
        ^ Cherednychenko, p.&nbsp;23-24. sfn error: no target: CITEREFCherednychenko (help)  
        ^ 
          Casini, Lorenzo; Cassese, Sabino; Napolitano, Guilio (April 2011). "The New Italian Public Law Scholarship". International Journal of Constitutional Law. 9 (2): 302–303. doi:10.1093/icon/mor049. Retrieved June 29, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Bell, John; Boyron, Sophie; Whittaker, Sophie (2008). Principles of French Law. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;141–240. ISBN&nbsp;9780199541393. Retrieved June 29, 2020.  
        ^ Horwitz, p.&nbsp;1423-1424. sfn error: no target: CITEREFHorwitz (help)  
        ^ 
          Jakab, András (2006). European Constitutional Language. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;387–400. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-107-13078-4.  
        ^ 
          Vértesy, László (2007). "The Place and Theory of Banking Law – Or Arising of a New Branch of Law: Law of Financial Industries". Collega. 2–3. XI. SSRN&nbsp;3198092.  
        ^ 
          Montesquieu, Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de (1989). The Spirit of the Laws. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;7.  
       
       
      References 
      
       
        Aquinas, Thomas (2000). Treatise on Law. Indianapolis, IN: Hacket Publishing Company. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-87220-548-2. 
       
        Bell, John; Boyron, Sophie; Whittaker, Sophie (2008). Principles of French Law. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;141–240. ISBN&nbsp;9780199541393. Retrieved June 29, 2020. 
       
        Casini, Lorenzo; Cassese, Sabino; Napolitano, Guilio (April 2011). "The New Italian Public Law Scholarship". International Journal of Constitutional Law. 9 (2): 302–303. doi:10.1093/icon/mor049. Retrieved June 29, 2020. 
       
        Cherednychenko, Olha (April 18, 2007). Fundamental Rights, Contract Law, and Protection of the Weaker Party. Utrecht, Netherlands: Utrecht University Institute for Legal Studies. hdl:1874/20945. 
       
        Cohen, Morris (1927). "Property and Sovereignty". Cornell Law Review. 13 (1): 8. Retrieved August 7, 2020. 
       
        Forcese, Craig; Dodek, Adam; Bryant, Philip; Carver, Peter; Haigh, Richard; Liston, Mary; MacIntosh, Constance (2015). Public Law: Cases, Commentary and Analysis (Third&nbsp;ed.). Toronto, ON: Emond Montgomery Publishing Ltd. p.&nbsp;4. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55239-664-3. 
       
        Horwitz, Morton (1982). "The History of the Public/Private Distinction". University of Pennsylvania Law Review. 130 (6): 1423–1428. doi:10.2307/3311976. JSTOR&nbsp;3311976. Retrieved June 28, 2020. 
       
        Jakab, András (2006). European Constitutional Language. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;387–400. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-107-13078-4. 
       
        Justinian; Watson, Alan (1985). The Digest of Justinian. Vol.&nbsp;1. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8122-2033-9. 
       
        Kantorowicz, Ernst (May 10, 2016). The King's Two Bodies: A Study in Medieval Theology. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-16923-1. 
       
        Martin, Elizabeth A. (2003). Oxford Dictionary of Law. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0198607563. 
       
        Murkens, Jo Eric Khushal (July 15, 2009). "The Quest for Constitutionalism in UK Public Law Discourse". Oxford Journal of Legal Studies. 29 (3): 427–455. doi:10.1093/ojls/gqp020. Retrieved June 29, 2020. 
       
        Montesquieu, Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de (1989). The Spirit of the Laws. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-36183-5. 
       
        Vértesy, László (2007). "The Place and Theory of Banking Law - Or Arising of a New Branch of Law: Law of Financial Industries". Collega. 2-3. XI. SSRN&nbsp;3198092.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Law
           
         
         
          Core subjects
          
            
            
             Administrative law 
             Civil law 
             Constitutional law 
             Contract 
             Criminal law 
             Deed 
             Equity 
             Evidence 
             International law 
             Law of obligations 
             Private law 
             Procedure 
              
               Civil 
               Criminal
               
             Property law 
             Public law 
             Restitution 
             Statutory law 
             Tort
             
           
         
         
          Other subjects
          
            
            
             Agricultural law 
             Aviation law 
             Amnesty law 
             Banking law 
             Bankruptcy 
             Commercial law 
             Competition law 
             Conflict of laws 
             Construction law 
             Consumer protection 
             Corporate law 
             Cyberlaw 
             Election law 
             Energy law 
             Entertainment law 
             Environmental law 
             Family law 
             Financial law 
             Financial regulation 
             Health law 
             History of the legal profession 
             History of the American legal profession 
             Immigration law 
             Intellectual property 
             International criminal law 
             International human rights 
             International slavery laws 
             Jurimetrics 
             Labour 
             Law of war 
             Legal archaeology 
             Legal fiction 
             Maritime law 
             Media law 
             Military law 
             Nationality law 
             Probate 
              
               Estate 
               Will and testament
               
             Product liability 
             Pseudolaw 
             Public international law 
             Space law 
             Sports law 
             Tax law 
             Transport law 
             Trust law 
             Unenforced law 
             Women in law
             
           
         
         
          Sources of law
          
            
            
             Charter 
             Legal code / Statutory law 
             Constitution 
             Custom 
             Divine right 
              
               Divine law
               
             Human rights 
             Natural law 
              
               Natural and legal rights
               
             Case law 
              
               Precedent 
               Law reports
               
             Legal treatise 
             Regulations
             
           
         
         
          Law making
          
            
            
             Ballot measure 
             Codification 
             Decree 
              
               Edict 
               Executive order 
               Proclamation
               
             Legislation 
              
               Delegated legislation 
               Regulation 
               Rulemaking
               
             Promulgation 
             Repeal 
             Treaty 
              
               Concordat
               
             Statutory law 
              
               Statute 
               Act of Parliament 
               Act of Congress (US)
              
             
           
         
         
          Legal systems
          
            
            
             Civil law 
             Common law 
             Chinese law 
             Legal pluralism 
             Religious law 
              
               Canon law 
                
                 Catholic canon law
                 
               Hindu law 
               Jain law 
               Jewish law 
               Parsi law 
               Sharia
               
             Roman law 
             Socialist law 
             Statutory law 
             Xeer 
             Yassa
             
           
         
         
          Legal theory
          
            
            
             Anarchist 
             Contract theory 
             Critical legal studies 
             Comparative law 
             Expressive function 
             Feminist 
             Law and economics 
             Legal formalism 
             History 
             Libertarian 
             International legal theory 
             Principle of legality 
             Principle of typicality 
             Rule of law 
             Sociology
             
           
         
         
          Jurisprudence
          
            
            
             Adjudication 
             Administration of justice 
             Criminal justice 
             Court-martial 
             Dispute resolution 
             Fiqh 
             Lawsuit/Litigation 
             Legal opinion 
             Legal remedy 
             Judge 
              
               Justice of the peace 
               Magistrate
               
             Judgment 
             Judicial review 
             Jurisdiction 
             Jury 
             Justice 
             Practice of law 
              
               Attorney 
               Barrister 
               Counsel 
               Lawyer 
               Legal representation 
               Prosecutor 
               Solicitor
               
             Question of fact 
             Question of law 
             Trial 
             Trial advocacy 
             Trier of fact 
             Verdict
             
           
         
         
          Legal institutions
          
            
            
             Barristers' chambers 
             Bureaucracy 
             The bar 
             The bench 
             Civil society 
             Court 
             Court of equity 
             Election commission 
             Executive 
             Judiciary 
             Law enforcement 
             Legal education 
              
               Law school
               
             Legislature 
             Military 
             Police 
             Political party 
             Tribunal
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Law portal 
             Category 
             Index 
             Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Public_law&amp;oldid=1069388556"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Public law
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Harv and Sfn no-target errors
       CS1: long volume value
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from August 2021
       Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2014
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from July 2020
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2020
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Беларуская
       Български
       Català
       Чӑвашла
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Italiano
       עברית
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Mirandés
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Scots
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 February 2022, at 02:32&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
