

  
   
   
   
  Browse subject: Information science | The Online Books Page
  
  
   
   The Online Books Page 
   
  
    Browsing subject area: Information science (Include extended shelves)
   You can also browse an alphabetical list from this subject or from: 
    
    
   
   
  
   
     
     Information scienceSee also what's at Wikipedia, your library, or elsewhere. Broader term:
      
       Communication
      Related terms:
      
       Library science
       Information literacy
      Narrower terms:
      
       Information science -- Brazil
       Information science -- Canada
       Information science -- Congresses
       Information science -- Dictionaries
       Information science -- Moral and ethical aspects
       Information science -- Pakistan
       Information science -- Periodicals
       Information science -- Philosophy
       Information science -- Research
       Information science -- Social aspects
       Information science -- Standards
       Information science -- Statistical methods
       Information science -- Study and teaching
       Bioinformatics
       Documentation
       Geomatics
       Information policy
       Information resources
       Information retrieval
       Information services
       Information visualization
       Medical informatics
       Women in information science
      
        Filed under: Information science
      
        Measurement of Science: Study of the Development of Science as an Information Process (edited machine translation from Russian; 1971), by V. V. Nalimov and Z. M. Mul'chenko, ed. by Robert D. Hill (linked PDF files here at Penn)
        Data Science at the Command Line (free online edition; originally published 2014), by Jeroen Janssens (illustrated HTML at datascienceatthecommandline.com)
        Metalibrarianship: A Model for Intellectual Foundations of Library Science, by Joseph Z. Nitecki (HTML at Wayback Machine)
        The Nitecki Trilogy, by Joseph Z. Nitecki (illustrated HTML at Wayback Machine)
        Essays of an Information Scientist (15 volumes), by Eugene Garfield (PDF files here at Penn)
                                                       Filed under: Information science -- Brazil -- Periodicals
      
        Brazilian Journal of Information Science (in English and Portuguese; 2006-) (partial serial archives)
         Filed under: Information science -- Canada -- Periodicals
      
        Partnership: The Canadian Journal of Library and Information Practice and Research (2006-) (full serial archives)
               Filed under: Archives -- Congresses
      
        The Archive in Motion: New Conceptions of the Archive in Contemporary Thought and New Media Practices (Oslo: Novus Press, c2010), ed. by Eivind Røssaak (multiple formats in Norway)
             Filed under: Online information services -- Congresses
      
        Digital Libraries '95, by Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries (HTML at TAMU)
        Proceedings of Digital Libraries '94, by Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries (HTML at TAMU)
      Filed under: Science -- Information services -- Congresses
      
        Open Access and the Public Domain in Digital Data and Information for Science: Proceedings of an International Symposium (2004), ed. by Julie M. Esanu and P. F. Uhlir (HTML and page images with commentary at NAP)
      Filed under: Information science -- Dictionaries
      
        ODLIS: Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science (c2007), by Joan M. Reitz (HTML with commentary at lu.com)
      Filed under: Information science -- Periodicals
      
        Brazilian Journal of Information Science (in English and Portuguese; 2006-) (partial serial archives)
        Information (information science and technology journal; Basel: MDPI AG, 2010-) (full serial archives)
        Information Research (1995-) (full serial archives)
        Informing Science (1998-) (full serial archives)
        JLIS.it: Italian Journal of Library and Information Science (with articles in Italian and English; 2010-) (full serial archives)
        Webology (2004-) (full serial archives)
        Annals of Library and Information Studies (open access from 2002-) (partial serial archives)
        LIBRES: Library and Information Science Research e-Journal (issues online 1996-) (partial serial archives)
        Partnership: The Canadian Journal of Library and Information Practice and Research (2006-) (full serial archives)
        Information Technology and Libraries (open access issues from mid-2011 onward) (partial serial archives)
        Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, by American Society for Information Science and Technology (partial serial archives)
        Pakistan Journal of Library and Information Science (partial serial archives)
      Filed under: Information science -- Philosophy
      
        Philosophical Aspects of Library Information Science in Retrospect, by Joseph Z. Nitecki (HTML at Wayback Machine)
      Filed under: Bioinformatics
      
        Bioinformatics in Tropical Disease Research: A Practical and Case-Study Approach (2008), ed. by Arthur Gruber, Alan M. Durham, Chong Huynh, and Hernando A. del Portillo (illustrated HTML at NIH)
        Clever Algorithms: Nature-Inspired Programming Recipes (c2011), by Jason Brownlee
        
          PDF at Github
          PDF with commentary at Github
        
        The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction (second edition, 2009), by Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, and J. H. Friedman (PDF with commentary at Stanford)
      Filed under: Documentation
      
        Documentarity: Evidence, Ontology, and Inscription (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, c2019), by Ronald E. Day (HTML with commentary at MIT Press)
        Archives, Documentation, and Institutions of Social Memory: Essays From the Sawyer Seminar (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, c2006), ed. by Francis X. Blouin and William G. Rosenberg (page images at HathiTrust)
      Filed under: Geomatics
      
        Das Rückwärtseinschneiden im Raum (dissertation in German; Zürich: A.-G. Gebr. Leemann und Co., 1933), by Gustav Volkart (PDF at ETH Zurich)
      Filed under: Information policy
      
        Shareveillance: The Dangers of Openly Sharing and Covertly Collecting Data (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2017), by Clare Birchall (multiple formats with commentary at umn.edu)
        ICT Policy Formulation and E-Strategy Development: A Comprehensive Guidebook (2005), by Richard Labelle (PDF at apdip.net)
        ICT Policies and E-Strategies in the Asia-Pacific: A Critical Assessment of the Way Forward (2004), ed. by Phet Sayo, James George Chacko, and Gopi Pradhan (PDF at apdip.net)
      Filed under: Information resources
      
        The Network Reshapes the Library: Lorcan Dempsey on Libraries, Services, and Networks (Chicago: ALA Editions, 2014), by Lorcan Dempsey, ed. by Kenneth J. Varnum (PDF with commentary at oclc.org)
      Filed under: Information retrieval
      
        Introduction to Information Retrieval (prepublication version; 2008), by Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schütze (HTML and PDF with commentary at Stanford)
        Systems of Knowledge Organization for Digital Libraries: Beyond Traditional Authority Files (2000), by Gail M. Hodge (PDF at clir.org)
        Introduction to Controlled Vocabularies: Terminology for Art, Architecture, and Other Cultural Works (Los Angeles: Getty Research Institute, c2010), by Patricia Harpring (page images and PDF with commentary at getty.edu and Google)
      Filed under: Information visualization
      
        Hands-On Data Visualization: Interactive Storytelling From Spreadsheets to Code (open-access web edition; 2021), by Jack Dougherty and Ilya Ilyankou (illustrated HTML an handsondataviz.org)
        Data Visualization in Society (Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press, c2020), ed. by Martin Engebretsen and Helen Kennedy (PDF files with commentary at aup.nl and JSTOR)
        Viral Networks: Connecting Digital Humanities and Medical History (Blacksburg, VA: VT Publishing, 2018), ed. by E. Thomas Ewing and Katherine Randall (multiple formats with commentary at VT Publishing)
        Introduction to Data Science: Data Analysis and Prediction Algorithms With R (Creative Commons online edition, 2021), by Rafael A. Irizarry (illustrated HTML with commentary at github.uio)
        The Data Journalism Handbook (electronic first edition, c2012), ed. by Liliana Bounegru, Lucy Chambers, and Jonathan Gray (illustrated HTML with commentary at datajournalismhandbook.org)
        The Data Journalism Handbook 2: Towards a Critical Data Practice (online edition, ca. 2021), ed. by Jonathan Gray and Liliana Bounegru (illustrated HTML with commentary at datajournalism.com)
        digitalSTS: A Field Guide for Science and Technology Studies (Princeton: Princeton University Press, c2019), ed. by Janet Vertesi and David Ribes (PDF files and multimedia with commentary at digitalsts.net)
        D3.js Tips and Tricks, by Malcolm Maclean (JavaScript-dependent illustrated HTML at leanpub.com)
      Filed under: Medical informatics
      
        Fundamentals of Clinical Data Science (Cham: Springer Open, c2019), ed. by Pieter Kubben, Michel Dumontier, and A. L. A. J. Dekker (multiple formats at Springer Link)
        Bringing Health Care Online: The Role of Information Technologies (1995), by United States Congress Office of Technology Assessment (PDF files at Princeton)
        Health Data in the Information Age: Use, Disclosure, and Privacy (1994), by Institute of Medicine (U.S.) (page images with commentary at NAP)
        The Fourth Paradigm: Data-Intensive Scientific Discovery (Redmond, WA: Microsoft Research, c2009), ed. by Anthony J. G. Hey, Stewart Tansley, and Kristin Michele Tolle (PDF files with commentary at Microsoft)
      Filed under: Women in information science
      
        Digital Divas: Putting the Wow Into Computing for Girls (Clayton, Victoria: Monash University Publishing, c2016), by Julie Fisher, Catherine Lang, Annemieke Craig, and Helen Forgasz, contrib. by Amber McLeod
        
          PDF with commentary at oapen.org
          page images and PDF at HathiTrust
        
        More items available under narrower terms.
    
   
   
  Help with reading books -- Report a bad link -- Suggest a new listing 
  Home -- Search -- New Listings -- Authors -- Titles -- Subjects -- Serials 
   Books -- News -- Features -- Archives -- The Inside Story 
  Edited by John Mark Ockerbloom (onlinebooks@pobox.upenn.edu)OBP copyrights and licenses.
 
