
 
  
   
  Public policy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Public policy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Government action
       
      
      
       This article is about government action. For use of the phrase in legal doctrine, see Public policy doctrine.
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of the Politics series
        
        
         Politics
        
        
         
        
        
          
           
           
            Outline 
            Index 
            Category
            
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Primary topics
           
           
             
             
              Outline of political science 
              Index of politics articles 
              Politics by country 
              Politics by subdivision 
              Political economy 
              Political history 
              Political history of the world 
              Political philosophy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Political systems
           
           
             
             
              Anarchy 
              City-state 
              Democracy 
              Dictatorship 
              Directory 
              Federacy 
              Feudalism 
              Meritocracy 
              Monarchy 
              Parliamentary 
              Presidential 
              Republic 
              Semi-parliamentary 
              Semi-presidential 
              Theocracy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Academic disciplines
           
           
             
             
              
               
                Political science (political scientists)
                
              
               
                International relations (theory)
                
              Comparative politics 
              Political psychology 
              Political sociology
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Public administration
           
           
             
             
              Bureaucracy (street-level) 
              Technocracy 
              Adhocracy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Policy
           
           
             
             
              Public policy (doctrine) 
              Domestic policy 
              Foreign policy 
              Civil society 
              Public interest
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches of government
           
           
             
             
              Separation of powers
              
             
              
              
             
              Legislature 
              Executive 
              Judiciary 
              Election commission
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related topics
           
           
             
             
              Sovereignty 
              Theories of political behavior 
              Biology and political orientation 
              Political organisations 
              Critique of political economy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Subseries
           
           
             
             
              Electoral systems 
              Elections 
               
                voting
                
              Unitarism 
              Federalism 
              Form of government 
              Ideology 
              Political campaigning 
              Political parties
              
            
           
           
        
        
          &nbsp;Politics portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Public policy is an institutionalized proposal to solve relevant and real-world problems, guided by a conception  and implemented by programs as a course of action created and/or enacted, typically by a government, in response to social issues. Beyond this broad definition, public policy has been conceptualized in a variety of ways. 
      A popular way of understanding and engaging in public policy is through a series of stages known as "the policy cycle". The characterization of particular stages can vary, but a basic sequence is: agenda setting – formulation – legitimation – implementation – evaluation. 
      Officials considered as policymakers bear responsibility to reflect the interests of a host of different stakeholders. Policy design entails conscious and deliberate effort to define policy aims and map them instrumentally. Academics and other experts in policy studies have developed a range of tools and approaches to help in this task.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Varying conceptions of public policy 
        2 Public policy making and the implementation of public policy 
          
          2.1 Public policy making 
            
            2.1.1 Agenda setting 
              
              2.1.1.1 Social construction of problems 
              2.1.1.2 Policy stream 
              2.1.1.3 Problem stream 
              2.1.1.4 Issue attention cycle 
               
            2.1.2 Policy formulation 
            2.1.3 Legitimation 
            2.1.4 Implementation 
            2.1.5 Implementation gap 
            2.1.6 Top-down and bottom-up implementation 
            2.1.7 Evaluation 
            2.1.8 Policy maintenance 
            2.1.9 Composition 
             
          2.2 Responsibility of policymakers 
           
        3 Policy design 
          
          3.1 Data-driven policy 
          3.2 User-centered policy design 
          3.3 Small System dynamics model 
          3.4 Evidence-based policy 
            
            3.4.1 In the U.S. 
             
           
        4 Academic discipline 
        5 Controversy surrounding public policy 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        
       
      Varying conceptions of public policy 
      Public policy can be conceptualized in varying ways, according to the purposes of the speaker or author, and the characteristics of the situation they are concerned with. 
      One dividing line in conceptions of public policy is between those that see it primarily in terms of ideas (principles and plans of action) and those that see it as a collection of empirical phenomena (the things that are done, and their outcomes). The first of these conceptualizations is suitable when the matter of concern is relatively simple and unambiguous, and the means of enactment are expected to be highly disciplined. But where the matter is complex and/or contested – where intentions are confused and/or disguised – it may not be possible to define the policy ideas clearly and unambiguously. In this case it may be useful to identify a policy in terms of what actually happens. 
      David Easton in the USA of the 1950s provided an illustration of the need he found to broaden his conceptualization of public policy beyond stated ideas: "If the formal policy of an educational system forbids discrimination against Negroes but local school boards or administrators so zone school attendance that Negroes are segregated in a few schools, both the impartial law and discriminatory practices must be considered part of the policy." Easton characterized public policy as "a web of decisions and actions that allocates values". 
      Other definitions of public policy in terms of a broad range of empirical phenomena include that of Paul Cairney: "the sum total of government action from signals of intent to the final outcomes". 
      An example of conceiving public policy as ideas is a definition by Richard Titmuss: "the principles that govern action directed towards given ends". Titmuss' perspective was particularly one of social contract ethics. 
      More recently, Antonio Lassance has defined public policy as "an institutionalized proposal to solve a central problem, guided by a conception" (Lassance, 2020: 7). Lassance's perspective and concerns are grounded in a theory of change or program theory which he believes can be empirically tested. 
      One of the most known and controversial concepts of public policy is that of Thomas R. Dye, according to whom "public policy is whatever governments choose to do or not to do" (Dye, 1972: 2). Although widely used, Dye's concept is also criticized as being an empty concept. Dye himself admitted that his concept "discourages elaborate academic discussions of the definition of public policy - we say simply that public policy is whatever governments choose to do or not to do". 
      In an institutionalist view, the foundation of public policy is composed of national constitutional laws and regulations. Further foundational aspects include both judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally authorized by legislation. Public policy is considered strong when it solves problems efficiently and effectively, serves and supports governmental institutions and policies, and encourages active citizenship. 
      In his book Advanced Introduction to Public Policy, B. Guy Peters defines public policy as "the set of activities that governments engage in for the purpose of changing their economy and society", effectively saying that public policy is legislation brought in with the aim of benefiting or impacting the electorate in some way. In another definition, author B. Dente in his book Understanding Policy Decisions explains public policy as "a set of actions that affect the solution of a policy problem, i.e. a dissatisfaction regarding a certain need, demand or opportunity for public intervention. Its quality is measured by the capacity to create public value." 
      Other scholars define public policy as a system of "courses of action, regulatory measures, laws, and funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives". Public policy is commonly embodied in "constitutions, legislative acts, and judicial decisions". Transformative constitutions of Global South considers judicial actions for Public policy as paramount, since the political forces that facilitate legislative decisions may run counter to the will of the people. 
      Public policy focuses on the decisions that create the outputs of a political system, such as transport policies, the management of a public health service, the administration of a system schooling and the organization of a defense force. 
      In the United States, this concept refers not only to the result of policies, but more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions. As an academic discipline, public policy is studied by professors and students at public policy schools of major universities throughout the country. The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners, researchers, scholars, and students is the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management. 
      Much of public policy is concerned with evaluating decision-making in governments and public bureaucracies.  
      Public policy making and the implementation of public policy 
      Public policy making can be characterized as a dynamic, complex, and interactive system through which public problems are identified and resolved through the creation of new policy or reform of existing policy. 
      Public problems can originate in endless ways and require different policy responses (such as regulations, subsidies, import quotas, and laws) on the local, national, or international level. The public problems that influence public policy making can be of economic, social, or political nature. 
      The Government holds a legal monopoly to initiate or threaten physical force to achieve its ends when necessary. For instance, in times of chaos when quick decision making is needed.  
      Public policy making 
      Public policy making is a time-consuming 'policy cycle'. 
      The policy cycle as set out in Understanding Public Policy: Theories and Issues.  
      Agenda setting 
      Agenda setting identifies problems that require government attention, deciding which issue deserve the most attention and defining the nature of the problem.  
      Social construction of problems 
      Most public problems are made through the reflection of social and ideological values. As societies and communities evolve over time, the nature in which norms, customs and morals are proven acceptable, unacceptable, desirable or undesirable changes as well. Thus, the search of crucial problems to solve becomes difficult to distinguish within 'top-down' governmental bodies.  
      Policy stream 
      The policy stream is a concept developed by John Kingdon as a model proposed to show compelling problems need to be conjoined with two other factors (1. appropriate political climate and 2. favourable and feasible solution attached to problem) that flow together to move onto policy agenda. This reinforces the policy window, another concept demonstrating the critical moment within a time and situation that a new policy could be motivated.  
      Problem stream 
      Because the definition of public problems are not obvious, they are most often denied and not acted upon. The Problem Stream represents a policy process to compromise for how worthy problems are to create policies and solutions. This is represented in 5 discrete factors:  
      
       Indicators: Scientific measurements, qualitative, statistical data using empirical evidence is used to bring relevance to particular phenomena. 
       Interpretation: Policymakers make judgements whether an issue constitutes a problem worthy of action. 
       Ideology: Elements of dominant values, customs, beliefs are crucial to devising problems needed for attention. 
       Instances: Media coverage supports by drawing attention to issues, thus prompting policymakers to respond and address changes.
       
      Therefore, John Kingdon's model suggests the policy window appears through the emergence and connection of problems, politics and policies, emphasizing the rare opportunity to stimulate and initiate new policies.  
      Issue attention cycle 
      The 'issue attention cycle' is a concept developed by Anthony Downs (1972) where problems progress through 5 distinct stages. This reinforces how the policy agenda does not necessarily lead to policy change, as public interest dissipates, most problems end up resolving themselves or get ignored by policymakers. Its key stages include:  
      
       Pre-problem stage: The problem is not recognized by the public, media or policy makers. 
       Alarmed discovery and euphoric enthusiasm: something is identified as a problem, supported awareness by media to pursue seriousness of problem 
       Realization of costs which will be incurred by the solutions: Investigating through cost-benefit analysis, bringing awareness of financial, environmental, structural curbs to consider solutions and what makes for their consequences. 
       Decline in public interest in issue: Citizens acquire acceptance of the problem and it becomes 'normalized'. Newer issues attract the attention of the public. Limited attention span encourages policymakers to delay developing policy to see which public troubles demand necessary and worthwhile solving. 
       Issue slips off, or back down, the policy agenda: The issue effectively disappears, although it has the possibility to re-emerge in other pressing circumstances.
       
      Policy formulation 
      This is the setting of the objectives for the policy, along with identifying the cost and effect of solutions that could be proposed from policy instruments.  
      Legitimation 
      Legitimation is when approval/ support for the policy instruments is gathered, involving one of or a combination of executive approval, legislative approval, and seeking consent through consultation or referenda.  
      Implementation 
      Policy implementation is establishing or employing an organisation to take responsibility for the policy, making sure the organisation has the resources/legal authority to do so, in addition to making sure the policy is carried out as planned. An example of this would be the department of education being set up.  
      Implementation gap 
      As stated by Paul Cairney, the implementation gap are the stages a policy must go through before an authoritative decision is made and carried out. As an example, the agenda setting stage is followed by the policy formulation, this will continue until the policy is implemented.   
      Top-down and bottom-up implementation 
      "Top-down" and "bottom-up" describe the process of policy implementation. Top-down implementation means the carrying out of a policy at the top i.e. central government or legislature. The bottom-up approach suggests that the implementation should start with the target group, as they are seen as the actual implementers of policy.  
      Evaluation 
      Evaluation is the process of assessing the extent to which the policy has been successful, or if this was the right policy to begin with/ was it implemented correctly and if so, did it go as expected.  
      Policy maintenance 
      Maintenance is when the policy makers decide to either terminate or continue the policy. The policy is usually either continued as is, modified, or discontinued.  
      Composition 
      This cycle will unless discontinued go back to the agenda-setting phase and the cycle will commence again. However, the policy cycle is illustrated in a chronological and cyclical structure which could be misleading as in actuality, policymaking would include overlapping stages between the multiple interactions of policy proposals, adjustments, decision-making amongst multiple government institutions and respective authoritative actors. Likewise, although its heuristic model is straightforward and easy to understand, it is crucial to note that the cycle is not totally applicable in all situations of policymaking.  
      Responsibility of policymakers 
      Each system is influenced by different public problems and issues, and has different stakeholders; as such, each requires different public policy. 
      In public policy making, numerous individuals, corporations, non-profit organizations and interest groups compete and collaborate to influence policymakers to act in a particular way. 
      The large set of actors in the public policy process, such as politicians, civil servants, lobbyists, domain experts, and industry or sector representatives, use a variety of tactics and tools to advance their aims, including advocating their positions publicly, attempting to educate supporters and opponents, and mobilizing allies on a particular issue. 
      Many actors can be important in the public policy process, but government officials ultimately choose public policy in response to the public issue or problem at hand. In doing so, government officials are expected to meet public sector ethics and take the needs of all project stakeholders into account. 
      It is however worth noting that what public policy is put forward can be influenced by the political stance of the party in power. Following the 2008/2009 financial crisis, David Cameron's Conservative party looked to implement a policy of austerity in 2010 after winning the general election that year, to shore up the economy and diminish the UK's national debt. Whilst the Conservatives saw reducing the national debt as an absolute priority, the Labour Party, since the effects of Conservative austerity became apparent, have slated the policy for its 'needless' pressure on the working classes and those reliant on welfare, their 2019 election manifesto stating "Tory cuts  pushed our public services to breaking point" and that "the Conservatives have starved our education system of funding". This is a good example of how varying political beliefs can impact what is perceived as paramount for the electorate. 
      Since societies have changed in the past decades, the public policy making system changed too. In the 2010s, public policy making is increasingly goal-oriented, aiming for measurable results and goals, and decision-centric, focusing on decisions that must be taken immediately. 
      Furthermore, mass communications and technological changes such as the widespread availability of the Internet have caused the public policy system to become more complex and interconnected. The changes pose new challenges to the current public policy systems and pressures leaders to evolve to remain effective and efficient. 
      Public policies come from all governmental entities and at all levels: legislatures, courts, bureaucratic agencies, and executive offices at national, local and state levels. On the federal level, public policies are laws enacted by Congress, executive orders issued by the president, decisions handed down by the US Supreme Court, and regulations issued by bureaucratic agencies. 
      On the local, public policies include city ordinances, fire codes, and traffic regulations. They also take the form of written rules and regulations of city governmental departments: the police, fire departments, street repair, or building inspection. On the state level, public policies involve laws enacted by the state legislatures, decisions made by state courts, rules developed by state bureaucratic agencies, and decisions made by governors.  
      Policy design 
      Policy design entails conscious and deliberate effort to define policy aims and map them instrumentally. Policy design proposes critical analysis of policy instruments and their implementation. Uncertainties policy designers face include (in brief):  
      
       Technical difficulties: mechanism, design, constituency, environment of public policies 
       Cost issues: resources, materials, products, etc. 
       Political problems: selection process of solutions and decision making. Policies require tedious and rigorous research on advise for its feasibility, legitimacy and choice. 
       Compliance: Understanding the target market and discovering data for those dependent, disadvantaged or deviant on policy change. 
       Effectiveness: There is a possibility of spillovers, complementariness and inconsistencies.
       
      Nevertheless, policy design is elemental for the succession of public policy, with it comes intricate and multi-level approaches but it is necessary for good, careful policy design to be considered before implementing the policy.  
      Data-driven policy 
      Data-driven policy is a policy designed by a government based on existing data, evidence, rational analysis and use of information technology to crystallize problems and highlight effective solutions. Data-driven policy making aims to make use of data and collaborate with citizens to co-create policy. Policy makers can now make use of new data sources and technological developments like Artificial Intelligence to gain new insights and make policy decisions which contribute to societal development.  
      User-centered policy design 
      User-centered policies are policies that are designed and implemented with the end-users, or those who are impacted by the policy, as co-designers. Policymakers using this design process utilize users' knowledge of their lived experiences. This can allow for policymakers focus on including both comprehensiveness and comprehension within policies to aid in clarity for end-users, such as workers or organizations.  
      Small System dynamics model 
      The Small System dynamics model is a method of condensing and simplifying the understanding of complex issues related to overall productivity.  
      Evidence-based policy 
      Evidence-based policy is associated with Adrian Smith because in his 1996 presidential address to the Royal Statistical Society, Smith questioned the current process of policy making and urged for a more "evidence-based approach" commenting that it has "valuable lessons to offer". 
      Some policy scholars now avoid using the term evidence-based policy, using others such as evidence informed. This language shift allows continued thinking about the underlying desire to improve evidence use in terms of its rigor or quality, while avoiding some of the key limitations or reductionist ideas at times seen with the evidence-based language. Still, the language of evidence-based policy is widely used and, as such, can be interpreted to reflect a desire for evidence to be used well or appropriately in one way or another – such as by ensuring systematic consideration of rigorous and high quality policy relevant evidence, or by avoiding biased and erroneous applications of evidence for political ends.  
      In the U.S. 
      Unlike the UK, the U.S. has a largely devolved government, with power at local, state and federal level. Due to these various levels of governance, it can often be difficult to coordinate passing bills and legislation, and there is often disagreement. Despite this, the system allows citizens to be relatively involved in inputting legislation. Furthermore, each level of government is set up in a similar way with similar rules, and all pump money into creating what is hoped to be effective legislation. Policy creation in America is often seen as unique to other countries.  
      Academic discipline 
      
      
       Main article: Policy studies
       
      As an academic discipline, public policy brings in elements of many social science fields and concepts, including economics, sociology, political economy, social policy, program evaluation, policy analysis, and public management, all as applied to problems of governmental administration, management, and operations. At the same time, the study of public policy is distinct from political science or economics, in its focus on the application of theory to practice. While the majority of public policy degrees are master's and doctoral degrees, there are several universities that offer undergraduate education in public policy. Notable institutions include:  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         CIGI Campus, home to the Balsillie School of International Affairs
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Blavatnik School of Government building on Walton Street
        
       
       
      
       Balsillie School of International Affairs 
       Blavatnik School of Government 
       Leiden University 
       Hertie School, Berlin 
       Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, Geneva 
       John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard 
       London School of Economics 
       Sciences Po, Paris 
       National Defence University, Pakistan
       
      Traditionally, the academic field of public policy focused on domestic policy. However, the wave of economic globalization that occurred in the late 20th and early 21st centuries created a need for a subset of public policy that focused on global governance, especially as it relates to issues that transcend national borders such as climate change, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and economic development. Consequently, many traditional public policy schools had to adjust their curricula to better suit this new policy landscape, as well as develop entirely new curricula altogether.  
      Controversy surrounding public policy 
      The Austrian and Chicago school of economics criticise public policymakers for not "understanding basic economics". In particular, a member of the Chicago school of economics, Thomas Sowell writes "Under popularly elected government, the political incentives are to do what is popular, even if the consequences are worse than the consequences of doing nothing, or doing something that is less popular". Therefore, since "Economics studies the consequences of decisions that are made about the use of land, labour, capital and other resources that go into producing the volume of output which determines a country's standard of living"; this means that artificially tampering with the allocation of scarce resources such as implementing certain public policies such as price controls will cause inefficiency in the economy and decline in the standard of living within society. 
      One of the biggest controversies of public policy is that policy making is often influenced by lobbyists such as big corporations in order to sway policies in their favour. In the United States for example, the National Rifle Association (NRA) is a lobbyist organisation that lobbies lawmakers that oppose stricter gun laws.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Politics portal
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Public policy
         
       
       
      
       Advocacy 
       Advocacy evaluation 
       Eightfold path (policy analysis) 
       Harold Lasswell 
       List of public policy topics by country 
       List of public administration schools 
       Mandate (politics) 
       Overton window 
       Policy 
       Public comment 
       Public policy school 
       Public criminology
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c Lassance, Antonio (2020-11-10). "What Is a Policy and What Is a Government Program? A Simple Question With No Clear Answer, Until Now". Rochester, NY. doi:10.2139/ssrn.3727996. S2CID&nbsp;234600314. SSRN&nbsp;3727996. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Rinfret, Sara; Scheberie, Denise; Pautz, Michelle (2018). "Chapter 2: The Policy Process and Policy Theories". Public Policy: A Concise Introduction. SAGE Publications. pp.&nbsp;19–44. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-5063-2971-0.  
         ^ 
           Nawarat, Nongyao; Medley, Michael (2018). "The Public Regime for Migrant Child Education in Thailand: Alternative Depictions of Policy". Asian Politics and Policy. 10 (3): 412–415. doi:10.1111/aspp.12408. S2CID&nbsp;158615070.  
         ^ 
           Easton, David (1953). The political system: An enquiry into the state of political science. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. p.&nbsp;130.  
         ^ 
           Cairney, Paul (2012). Understanding public policy: Theories and issues. Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave Macmillan. p.&nbsp;5.  
         ^ 
           Titmuss, Richard (1974). Social Policy. London: George Allen &amp; Unwin. p.&nbsp;23. ISBN&nbsp;0-394-49447-4.  
         ^ 
           Weiss, Carol H. (1972). Evaluation. London: Pearson. pp.&nbsp;46–70. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-292193-0.  
         ^ 
           Kathryn E. Newcomer; Harry P. Hatry; Joseph S. Wholey (2015). Handbook of Practical Program Evaluation. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley. pp.&nbsp;62–88. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-89360-9.  
         ^ 
           Dye, Thomas R. (1972). Understanding Public Policy. Upper Saddle, New Jersey: Prentice Hall. p.&nbsp;2. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-205-71685-2.  
         ^ 
           Dye, Thomas R. (1972). Understanding Public Policy. Upper Saddle, New Jersey: Prentice Hall. p.&nbsp;13. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-13-613147-2.  
         ^ 
           "Characteristics of Successful Public Policy". Norwich University Public Administration. Norwich University Public Administration. Retrieved 24 November 2014.  
         ^ 
           Peters, B. G. (2015). Advanced Introduction to Public Policy. Edward Elgar. p.&nbsp;3. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-78195-576-5.  
         ^ 
           Dente, Bruno (2013-12-05), "Understanding Policy Decisions", SpringerBriefs in Applied Sciences and Technology, Springer International Publishing, pp.&nbsp;1–27, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-02520-9_1, ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-02519-3 }: Missing or empty |title= (help)  
         ^ 
           "Definitions of Public Policy and the Law". mainweb-v.musc.edu.  
         ^ 
           Schuster, W. Michael (31 December 2008). "For the Greater Good: The Use of Public Policy Considerations in Confirming Chapter 11 Plans of Reorganization". SSRN&nbsp;1368469. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Pellissery, Sony (2019). Transformative Law and Public Policy. New Delhi: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;9780367348298.  
         ^ a b 
           John, Peter (1998). Analyzing Public Policy. London: Continuum. p.&nbsp;10. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-203-13621-8.  
         ^ 
           John, Peter (1998). Analysing Public Policy. Continuum.  
         ^ a b 
           Sharkansky, Ira; R. Hofferbert. "Dimensions of State Politics, Economics, and Public Policy". The American Political Science Review.  
         ^ 
           Dusza, Karl (1989). "Max Weber's conception of the state". International Journal of Politics, Culture and Society. 3: 71–105. doi:10.1007/BF01430691. S2CID&nbsp;145585927.  
         ^ 
           Cairney, Paul (2012), "Introduction: Theories and Issues", Understanding Public Policy, London: Macmillan Education UK, pp.&nbsp;1–21, doi:10.1007/978-0-230-35699-3_1, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-230-22971-6, retrieved 2021-01-10  
         ^ a b c d 
           Dorey, Peter (2005). Policy Making in Britain: An Introduction. London. doi:10.4135/9781446279410. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7619-4904-6.  
         ^ 
           Wilson, William (1993), "Can Sociology Play a Greater Role in Shaping the National Agenda?", Sociology and the Public Agenda, 2455 Teller Road, Thousand Oaks California 91320 United States: SAGE Publications, Inc., pp.&nbsp;3–22, doi:10.4135/9781483325484.n1, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8039-5083-2, retrieved 2021-01-22}: CS1 maint: location (link)  
         ^ 
           Béland, Daniel; Howlett, Michael (2016-05-26). "The Role and Impact of the Multiple-Streams Approach in Comparative Policy Analysis". Journal of Comparative Policy Analysis: Research and Practice. 18 (3): 221–227. doi:10.1080/13876988.2016.1174410. ISSN&nbsp;1387-6988. S2CID&nbsp;156139395.  
         ^ 
           Gupta, Kuhika; Jenkins-Smith, Hank (2016-07-07). Lodge, Martin; Page, Edward C; Balla, Steven J (eds.). "Anthony Downs, 'Up and Down with Ecology: The "Issue-Attention" Cycle'". Oxford Handbooks Online. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199646135.013.34.  
         ^ 
           Howlett Michael, Giest Sarah (2013). "Chapter 2: The policy-making process". Routledge Handbook of public policy. London; New York: Routledge.  
         ^ 
           "Top-down and Bottom-up Approaches within Implementation". Political Pipeline. 21 February 2013.  
         ^ 
           "StackPath" (PDF). Institute for Government. Retrieved 2021-01-22.  
         ^ 
           "Understanding policy cycles". EgyptToday. 2018-08-02. Retrieved 2021-01-22.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Thei, Geurts (2010). "Public Policy Making: The 21st Century Perspective". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ Kilpatrick  
         ^ 
           Stanley, Liam (2016-03-07). "Legitimacy gaps, taxpayer conflict, and the politics of austerity in the UK" (PDF). The British Journal of Politics and International Relations. 18 (2): 389–406. doi:10.1177/1369148115615031. ISSN&nbsp;1369-1481. S2CID&nbsp;156681378.  
         ^ 
           "Rebuild our Public Services". The Labour Party. Retrieved 2019-12-31.  
         ^ 
           Schramm, Wilbur (165). The Process and Effects of mass communication. Urbana, University of Illinois Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-252-00197-0.  
         ^ a b 
           Wilson, Carter (2006). Public Policy: Continuity and Change. Illinois: Waveland Press. p.&nbsp;18. ISBN&nbsp;1-4786-3671-8.  
         ^ a b 
           Howlett, Michael (2010-12-17). Designing Public Policies. doi:10.4324/9780203838631. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-203-83863-1.  
         ^ 
           Esty, Daniel; Rushing, Reece (Summer 2007). "The Promise of Data-Driven Policymaking". Issues in Science and Technology. 23 (4). Retrieved 2020-01-08.  
         ^ 
           van Veenstra, Anne Fleur; Kotterink, Bas (2017). "Data-Driven Policy Making: The Policy Lab Approach" (PDF). Electronic Participation. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer International Publishing. 10429: 100–111. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-64322-9_9. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-64321-2.  
         ^ a b c 
           Ranney, Frances (11 March 2009). "Beyond Foucault: Toward a user‐centered approach to sexual harassment policy". Technical Communication Quarterly. 9 (1): 9–28. doi:10.1080/10572250009364683. S2CID&nbsp;143856976.  
         ^ 
           Moilanen, Stephen (May 15, 2019). "When to Use User-Centered Design for Public Policy". Stanford Social Innovation Review. Retrieved 2020-11-06.  
         ^ 
           Ghaffarzadegan, Navid; Lyneis, John; Richardson, George P. (2011). "How small system dynamics models can help the public policy process". System Dynamics Review. 27 (1): 22–44. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.407.8702. doi:10.1002/sdr.442. ISSN&nbsp;1099-1727.  
         ^ Boaz, Ashby, Young (2002). "Systematic Reviews: What have they got to offer evidence based policy and practice?" ESRC UK Centre for Evidence Based Policy and Practice. Retrieved 7 May 2016  
         ^ 
           Parkhurst, Justin (2017). The Politics of Evidence: from Evidence Based Policy to the Good Governance of Evidence (PDF). London: Routledge. doi:10.4324/9781315675008. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-138-93940-0.  
         ^ 
           Peters, B. Guy (30 September 2015). American public policy&nbsp;: promise and performance (Tenth&nbsp;ed.). Los Angeles. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4833-9150-2. OCLC&nbsp;908375236.  
         ^ 
           Pellissery, Sony (2015). "Public Policy". The SAGE Encyclopedia of World Poverty. Sage.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-04-26. Retrieved 2011-11-29.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ Stone, Diane. "Global public policy, transnational policy communities, and their networks". Policy Studies Journal 36, no. 1 (2008): 19–38  
         ^ 
           Sowell, Thomas (2014). Basic Economics. Basic Books. p.&nbsp;416.  
         ^ 
           Sowell, Thomas (2014). Basic Economics. Basic Books. p.&nbsp;4.  
         ^ 
           Hazlitt, Henry (1988). Economics in one lesson.  
         ^ 
           Rothbard, Murray (1963). America's Great Depression.  
         ^ 
           Mises, Ludwig Von (1936). Socialism. pp.&nbsp;99–113.  
         ^ 
           Mises, Ludwig Von (1949). Human Action.  
         ^ 
           "How the NRA, a powerful influence on American politics, found itself under attack". CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation). 2020-09-03. Retrieved 2022-01-18.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Bueno de Mesquita, Ethan. 2017. Political Economy for Public Policy. Princeton University Press. 
       Gilbert, Brett Anitra; David B. Audretsch, McDougall, Patricia P. (2004), The Emergence of Entrepreneurship Policy, Small Business Economics 22 
       Cohen, Nissim (2012) “Policy entrepreneurs and the design of public policy: Conceptual framework and the case of the National Health Insurance Law in Israel” Journal of Social Research &amp; Policy, 3 (1): 5–26. 
       David B. Audretsch; Grilo, Isabel; Thurik, A. Roy (2007), Explaining entrepreneurship and the role of policy: a framework, in: David Audretsch, Isabel Grilo and A. Roy Thurik (eds.), Handbook of Research on Entrepreneurship Policy, Edward Elgar Publishing 
       David B. Audretsch and Beckmann, Iris A.M. (2007), From Small Business to Entrepreneurship Policy, in: David Audretsch, Isabel Grilo and A. Roy Thurik (eds.), Handbook of Research on Entrepreneurship Policy, Edward Elgar Publishing 
       Considine, Mark (2005). Making Public Policy. Polity Press.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Public policy
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Climate change 
             Cultural 
             Domestic 
             Drug 
              
               reform
               
             Economic 
              
               Fiscal 
               Incomes 
               Industrial 
               Investment 
               Monetary 
               Tax 
               Trade
               
             Education 
             Energy 
              
               Nuclear energy 
               Renewable energy
               
             Environmental 
             Food 
             Foreign 
             Health 
              
               Pharmaceutical 
               Vaccination
               
             Housing 
             Immigration 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Military 
             Science 
              
               Stem cell 
               Space 
               Technology
               
             Social
             
           
         
         
          Other topics
          
            
            
             Public administration 
             Public policy doctrine 
             Public policy school 
             Policy analysis 
             Policy studies 
             Regulation 
             Public policy by country
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Public services
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Municipalization 
             Nationalization 
             Progressive tax
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Public administration 
             Public domain 
             Public health 
             Public interest 
             Public land 
             Public ownership 
             Public policy 
             Public procurement 
             Public value
             
           
         
         
          Basic services
          
            
            
             Civil service 
             Fire department 
             Law enforcement 
             Postal service 
              
               Savings system
               
             Public broadcasting 
             Public transport
             
           
         
         
          Public utility
          
            
            
             Electric utility 
             Oil &amp; gas 
             Telecommunication 
              
               Municipal broadband
               
             Public water system 
             Waste management
             
           
         
         
          Public works
          
            
            
             Infrastructure 
             Public bank 
             Public hospital 
             Public library 
             Public school 
             Public space 
             Public university
             
           
         
         
          Social services
          
            
            
             Single-payer health care 
              
               National health insurance
               
             Public housing 
             Social insurance 
              
               Social pension 
               Social security
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Civil service
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Public sector 
             Government agency 
             Bureaucracy 
             Bureaucrat 
             Technocracy 
             Diplomat 
             Public administration 
             Public policy 
             Public service
             
           
         
         
          By country/territory
          
            
            
             Australia 
             Bangladesh 
             Brazil 
             Canada 
             China 
              
               Hong Kong
               
             France 
             Germany 
             India 
             Ireland 
             Italy 
             Japan 
             Malaysia 
             New Zealand 
             Nigeria 
             Pakistan 
             Russia 
             Singapore 
             Sri Lanka 
             United Kingdom 
              
               Northern Ireland
               
             United States 
             European Union
             
           
         
         
          Categories
          
            
            
             National civil service commissions 
             Government occupations 
             Civil service by country
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             See also: Civil service reform in developing countries
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Public_policy&amp;oldid=1066372415"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Public policy
       Political science
       Public economics
       Public administration
       Social policy
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 errors: missing title
       CS1 maint: location
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from April 2018
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Magyar
       Македонски
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Tagalog
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 January 2022, at 02:25&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
