
 
  
   
  Demography - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Demography 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Science that deals with populations and their structures, statistically and theoretically
       
      
      
       This article is about the discipline. For the journal, see Demography (journal). For the album by 16 Volt, see Demography (album).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that Demographic analysis be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since February 2021.
          
        
       
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Demography of the World Population from 1950 to 2100. Data source: United Nations — World Population Prospects 2017
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Sociology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Key themes
           
            
            
             Society 
             Globalization 
             Human behavior 
             Human environmental impact 
             Identity 
             Industrial revolutions 3 &amp; 4 
             Social complexity 
             Social construct 
             Social environment 
             Social equality 
             Social equity 
             Social power 
             Social stratification 
             Social structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Perspectives
           
            
            
             Conflict theory 
             Critical theory 
             Structural functionalism 
             Positivism 
             Social constructionism 
             Symbolic interactionism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aging 
             Architecture 
             Art 
             Astrosociology 
             Body 
             Criminology 
             Consciousness 
             Culture 
             Death 
             Demography 
             Deviance 
             Disaster 
             Economic 
             Education 
             Emotion (Jealousy) 
             Environmental 
             Family 
             Feminist 
             Fiscal 
             Food 
             Gender 
             Generations 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Immigration 
             Industrial 
             Internet 
             Jewry 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Law 
             Leisure 
             Literature 
             Marxist 
             Mathematic 
             Medical 
             Military 
             Music 
             Peace, war, and social conflict 
             Philosophy 
             Political 
             Public 
             Punishment 
             Race and ethnicity 
             Religion 
             Rural 
             Science (History of science) 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociocybernetics 
             Sociology 
             Space 
             Sport 
             Technology 
             Terrorism 
             Urban 
             Utopian 
             Victimology 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Quantitative 
             Qualitative 
             Comparative 
             Computational 
             Ethnographic 
             Conversation analysis 
             Historical 
             Interview 
             Mathematical 
             Network analysis 
             Social experiment 
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
            East Asia 
            
             1900s 
              
               Fei Xiaotong
              
             
            South Asia   
            
             1800s 
              
               G.S Ghurye
               
             1900s 
              
               Irawati Karve 
               M. N. Srinivas
              
             
            Middle East  
            
             1400s 
              
               Ibn Khaldun
              
             
            Europe  
            
             1700s 
              
               Auguste Comte 
               Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès
               
             1800s 
              
               Émile Durkheim 
               Harriet Martineau 
               Karl Marx 
               Georg Simmel 
               Herbert Spencer 
               Ferdinand Tönnies 
               Max Weber
               
             1900s 
              
               Michel Foucault 
               Jürgen Habermas
              
             
            North America  
            
             1800s 
              
               Jane Addams 
               Ernest Burgess 
               W.E.B. Du Bois 
               George Herbert Mead 
               Thorstein Veblen
               
             1900s 
              
               James Coleman 
               Patricia Hill Collins 
               Erving Goffman 
               Paul Lazarsfeld 
               Charles Wright Mills 
               Robert K. Merton 
               Theda Skocpol 
               Dorothy E. Smith
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Bibliography 
             Terminology 
             Journals 
             Organizations 
             People 
             Timeline 
             By country
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Society portal 
           WikiProject Sociology
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Demography (from prefix demo- from Ancient Greek δῆμος (dēmos) meaning 'the people', and -graphy from γράφω (graphō) meaning 'writing, description or measurement') is the statistical study of populations, especially human beings. 
      Demographic analysis can cover whole societies or groups defined by criteria such as education, nationality, religion, and ethnicity. Educational institutions usually treat demography as a field of sociology, though there are a number of independent demography departments. 
      Patient demographics form the core of the data for any medical institution, such as patient and emergency contact information and patient medical record data. They allow for the identification of a patient and his categorization into categories for the purpose of statistical analysis. Patient demographics include: date of birth, gender (Ref: Google Health), date of death, postal code, ethnicity, blood type (Ref: Microsoft HealthVault: Personal Demographic Information, Basic Demographic Information), emergency contact information, family doctor, insurance provider data, allergies, major diagnoses and major medical history. 
      Formal demography limits its object of study to the measurement of population processes, while the broader field of social demography or population studies also analyses the relationships between economic, social, cultural, and biological processes influencing a population.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Methods 
          
          2.1 Direct methods 
          2.2 Indirect methods 
           
        3 Common rates and ratios 
        4 Basic equation regarding development of a population 
          
          4.1 Science of population 
           
        5 See also 
          
          5.1 Social surveys 
          5.2 Organizations 
          5.3 Scientific journals 
           
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Demographic thoughts traced back to antiquity, and were present in many civilisations and cultures, like Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome, China and India. Made up of the prefix demo- and the suffix -graphy, the term Demography refers to the overall study of population. 
      In ancient Greece, this can be found in the writings of Herodotus, Thucidides, Hippocrates, Epicurus, Protagoras, Polus, Plato and Aristotle. In Rome, writers and philosophers like Cicero, Seneca, Pliny the elder, Marcus Aurelius, Epictetus, Cato, and Columella also expressed important ideas on this ground. 
      In the Middle ages, Christian thinkers devoted much time in refuting the Classical ideas on demography. Important contributors to the field were William of Conches, Bartholomew of Lucca, William of Auvergne, William of Pagula, and Muslim sociologists like Ibn Khaldun. 
      One of the earliest demographic studies in the modern period was Natural and Political Observations Made upon the Bills of Mortality (1662) by John Graunt, which contains a primitive form of life table. Among the study's findings were that one-third of the children in London died before their sixteenth birthday. Mathematicians, such as Edmond Halley, developed the life table as the basis for life insurance mathematics. Richard Price was credited with the first textbook on life contingencies published in 1771, followed later by Augustus de Morgan, ‘On the Application of Probabilities to Life Contingencies’ (1838). 
      In 1755, Benjamin Franklin published his essay Observations Concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, etc., projecting exponential growth in British colonies. His work influenced Thomas Robert Malthus, who, writing at the end of the 18th century, feared that, if unchecked, population growth would tend to outstrip growth in food production, leading to ever-increasing famine and poverty (see Malthusian catastrophe). Malthus is seen as the intellectual father of ideas of overpopulation and the limits to growth. Later, more sophisticated and realistic models were presented by Benjamin Gompertz and Verhulst. 
      In 1855, a Belgian scholar Achille Guillard defined demography as the natural and social history of human species or the mathematical knowledge of populations, of their general changes, and of their physical, civil, intellectual, and moral condition. 
      The period 1860-1910 can be characterized as a period of transition where in demography emerged from statistics as a separate field of interest. This period included a panoply of international ‘great demographers’ like Adolphe Quételet (1796–1874), William Farr (1807–1883), Louis-Adolphe Bertillon (1821–1883) and his son Jacques (1851–1922), Joseph Körösi (1844–1906), Anders Nicolas Kaier (1838–1919), Richard Böckh (1824–1907), Émile Durkheim (1858-1917), Wilhelm Lexis (1837–1914), and Luigi Bodio (1840–1920) contributed to the development of demography and to the toolkit of methods and techniques of demographic analysis.  
      Methods 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Demography"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (September 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      There are two types of data collection—direct and indirect—with several different methods of each type.  
      Direct methods 
      Direct data comes from vital statistics registries that track all births and deaths as well as certain changes in legal status such as marriage, divorce, and migration (registration of place of residence). In developed countries with good registration systems (such as the United States and much of Europe), registry statistics are the best method for estimating the number of births and deaths. 
      A census is the other common direct method of collecting demographic data. A census is usually conducted by a national government and attempts to enumerate every person in a country. In contrast to vital statistics data, which are typically collected continuously and summarized on an annual basis, censuses typically occur only every 10 years or so, and thus are not usually the best source of data on births and deaths. Analyses are conducted after a census to estimate how much over or undercounting took place. These compare the sex ratios from the census data to those estimated from natural values and mortality data. 
      Censuses do more than just count people. They typically collect information about families or households in addition to individual characteristics such as age, sex, marital status, literacy/education, employment status, and occupation, and geographical location. They may also collect data on migration (or place of birth or of previous residence), language, religion, nationality (or ethnicity or race), and citizenship. In countries in which the vital registration system may be incomplete, the censuses are also used as a direct source of information about fertility and mortality; for example the censuses of the People's Republic of China gather information on births and deaths that occurred in the 18 months immediately preceding the census.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Map of countries by population
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Rate of human population growth showing projections for later this century
        
       
       
      Indirect methods 
      Indirect methods of collecting data are required in countries and periods where full data are not available, such as is the case in much of the developing world, and most of historical demography. One of these techniques in contemporary demography is the sister method, where survey researchers ask women how many of their sisters have died or had children and at what age. With these surveys, researchers can then indirectly estimate birth or death rates for the entire population. Other indirect methods in contemporary demography include asking people about siblings, parents, and children. Other indirect methods are necessary in historical demography. 
      There are a variety of demographic methods for modelling population processes. They include models of mortality (including the life table, Gompertz models, hazards models, Cox proportional hazards models, multiple decrement life tables, Brass relational logits), fertility (Hernes model, Coale-Trussell models, parity progression ratios), marriage (Singulate Mean at Marriage, Page model), disability (Sullivan's method, multistate life tables), population projections (Lee-Carter model, the Leslie Matrix), and population momentum (Keyfitz). 
      The United Kingdom has a series of four national birth cohort studies, the first three spaced apart by 12 years: the 1946 National Survey of Health and Development, the 1958 National Child Development Study, the 1970 British Cohort Study, and the Millennium Cohort Study, begun much more recently in 2000. These have followed the lives of samples of people (typically beginning with around 17,000 in each study) for many years, and are still continuing. As the samples have been drawn in a nationally representative way, inferences can be drawn from these studies about the differences between four distinct generations of British people in terms of their health, education, attitudes, childbearing and employment patterns.  
      Common rates and ratios 
      
       The crude birth rate, the annual number of live births per 1,000 people. 
       The general fertility rate, the annual number of live births per 1,000 women of childbearing age (often taken to be from 15 to 49 years old, but sometimes from 15 to 44). 
       The age-specific fertility rates, the annual number of live births per 1,000 women in particular age groups (usually age 15–19, 20-24 etc.) 
       The crude death rate, the annual number of deaths per 1,000 people. 
       The infant mortality rate, the annual number of deaths of children less than 1 year old per 1,000 live births. 
       The expectation of life (or life expectancy), the number of years that an individual at a given age could expect to live at present mortality levels. 
       The total fertility rate, the number of live births per woman completing her reproductive life, if her childbearing at each age reflected current age-specific fertility rates. 
       The replacement level fertility, the average number of children women must have in order to replace the population for the next generation. For example, the replacement level fertility in the US is 2.11. 
       The gross reproduction rate, the number of daughters who would be born to a woman completing her reproductive life at current age-specific fertility rates. 
       The net reproduction ratio is the expected number of daughters, per newborn prospective mother, who may or may not survive to and through the ages of childbearing. 
       A stable population, one that has had constant crude birth and death rates for such a long period of time that the percentage of people in every age class remains constant, or equivalently, the population pyramid has an unchanging structure. 
       A stationary population, one that is both stable and unchanging in size (the difference between crude birth rate and crude death rate is zero).
       
      A stable population does not necessarily remain fixed in size. It can be expanding or shrinking. 
      Note that the crude death rate as defined above and applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression. For example, the number of deaths per 1,000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries, despite standards of health being better in developed countries. This is because developed countries have proportionally more older people, who are more likely to die in a given year, so that the overall mortality rate can be higher even if the mortality rate at any given age is lower. A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table, which summarizes mortality separately at each age. A life table is necessary to give a good estimate of life expectancy.  
      Basic equation regarding development of a population 
      Suppose that a country (or other entity) contains Populationt persons at time t. What is the size of the population at time t + 1&nbsp;?  
      
       
        
            
             
              
               
                
                
                 Population
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
                 +
                 
                
                 1
                 
                
               
              
               =
               
               
                
                
                 Population
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               +
               
               
                
                
                 Natural Increase
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               +
               
               
                
                
                 Net Migration
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
             
            
             }_=}_+}_+}_}
             
            
          
       
       
      Natural increase from time t to t + 1:  
      
       
        
            
             
              
               
                
                
                 Natural Increase
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               =
               
               
                
                
                 Births
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               −
               
               
                
                
                 Deaths
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
             
            
             }_=}_-}_}
             
            
          
       
       
      Net migration from time t to t + 1:  
      
       
        
            
             
              
               
                
                
                 Net Migration
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               =
               
               
                
                
                 Immigration
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
               −
               
               
                
                
                 Emigration
                 
                
                
                
                 t
                 
                
               
              
             
            
             }_=}_-}_}
             
            
          
       
       
      These basic equations can also be applied to subpopulations. For example, the population size of ethnic groups or nationalities within a given society or country is subject to the same sources of change. When dealing with ethnic groups, however, "net migration" might have to be subdivided into physical migration and ethnic reidentification (assimilation). Individuals who change their ethnic self-labels or whose ethnic classification in government statistics changes over time may be thought of as migrating or moving from one population subcategory to another. 
      More generally, while the basic demographic equation holds true by definition, in practice the recording and counting of events (births, deaths, immigration, emigration) and the enumeration of the total population size are subject to error. So allowance needs to be made for error in the underlying statistics when any accounting of population size or change is made. 
      The figure in this section shows the latest (2004) UN projections of world population out to the year 2150 (red = high, orange = medium, green = low). The UN "medium" projection shows world population reaching an approximate equilibrium at 9&nbsp;billion by 2075. Working independently, demographers at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis in Austria expect world population to peak at 9&nbsp;billion by 2070. Throughout the 21st century, the average age of the population is likely to continue to rise.  
      Science of population 
      Populations can change through three processes: fertility, mortality, and migration. Fertility involves the number of children that women have and is to be contrasted with fecundity (a woman's childbearing potential). Mortality is the study of the causes, consequences, and measurement of processes affecting death to members of the population. Demographers most commonly study mortality using the Life Table, a statistical device that provides information about the mortality conditions (most notably the life expectancy) in the population. 
      Migration refers to the movement of persons from a locality of origin to a destination place across some predefined, political boundary. Migration researchers do not designate movements 'migrations' unless they are somewhat permanent. Thus demographers do not consider tourists and travellers to be migrating. While demographers who study migration typically do so through census data on place of residence, indirect sources of data including tax forms and labour force surveys are also important. 
      Demography is today widely taught in many universities across the world, attracting students with initial training in social sciences, statistics or health studies. Being at the crossroads of several disciplines such as sociology, economics, epidemiology, geography, anthropology and history, demography offers tools to approach a large range of population issues by combining a more technical quantitative approach that represents the core of the discipline with many other methods borrowed from social or other sciences. Demographic research is conducted in universities, in research institutes as well as in statistical departments and in several international agencies. Population institutions are part of the Cicred (International Committee for Coordination of Demographic Research) network while most individual scientists engaged in demographic research are members of the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population, or a national association such as the Population Association of America in the United States, or affiliates of the Federation of Canadian Demographers in Canada.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Biodemography 
        Biodemography of human longevity 
        Demographics of the world 
        Demographic economics 
        Gompertz–Makeham law of mortality 
        Linguistic demography 
        List of demographics articles 
        Medieval demography 
        National Security Study Memorandum 200 of 1974 
        NRS social grade 
        Political demography 
        Population biology 
        Population dynamics 
        Population geography 
        Population reconstruction 
        Population statistics 
        Religious demography 
        Replacement migration 
        Reproductive health
        
       Social surveys 
       
        Current Population Survey (CPS) 
        Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) 
        European Social Survey (ESS) 
        General Social Survey (GSS) 
        German General Social Survey (ALLBUS) 
        Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) 
        National Longitudinal Survey (NLS) 
        Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) 
        Performance Monitoring and Accountability 2020 (PMA2020) 
        Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP, German) 
        World Values Survey (WVS)
        
       Organizations 
       
        Global Social Change Research Project (United States) 
        Institut national d'études démographiques (INED) (France) 
        Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research (Germany) 
        Office of Population Research (Princeton University) (United States) 
        Population Council (United States) 
        Population Studies Center at the University of Michigan (United States) 
        Vienna Institute of Demography (VID) (Austria) 
        Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (Austria)
        
       Scientific journals 
       
        Brazilian Journal of Population Studies 
        Cahiers québécois de démographie 
        Demography 
        Population and Development Review
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ See for etymology (origins) of demography.  
         ^ "The Science of Population". demographicpartitions.org. Archived from the original on 14 August 2015. Retrieved 4 August 2015.  
         ^ 
           "UC Berkeley Demography department website".  
         ^ 
           "What Are Patient Demographics?". 21 December 2011.  
         ^ Andrew Hinde Demographic Methods Ch. 1 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-340-71892-7  
         ^ a b c 
           Srivastava, Sangya (December 2005). S.C.Srivastava,Studies in Demography, p.39-41. ISBN&nbsp;9788126119929.  
         ^ a b c d Peter Biller,The measure of multitude: Population in medieval thought.  
         ^ See, e.g., Andrey Korotayev, Artemy Malkov, &amp; Daria Khaltourina (2006). Introduction to Social Macrodynamics: Compact Macromodels of the World System Growth. Moscow: URSS, 
           ISBN&nbsp;5-484-00414-4.  
         ^ “Our Yesterdays: the History of the Actuarial Profession in North America, 1809-1979,” by E.J. (Jack) Moorhead, FSA, ( 1/23/10 – 2/21/04), published by the Society of Actuaries as part of the profession’s centennial celebration in 1989.  
         ^ The History of Insurance, Vol 3, Edited by David Jenkins and Takau Yoneyama (1 85196 527 0): 8 Volume Set: ( 2000) Availability: Japan: Kinokuniya).  
         ^ 
           von Valtier, William F. (June 2011). ""An Extravagant Assumption": The Demographic Numbers behind Benjamin Franklin's Twenty-Five-Year Doubling Period" (PDF). Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. 155 (2): 158–188. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 March 2016. Retrieved 19 September 2018.  
         ^ 
           Zirkle, Conway (25 April 1941). "Natural Selection before the 'Origin of Species'". Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Philadelphia, PA: American Philosophical Society. 84 (1): 71–123. ISSN&nbsp;0003-049X. JSTOR&nbsp;984852.  
         ^ 
           Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p.&nbsp;169.  
         ^ de Gans, Henk and Frans van Poppel (2000) Contributions from the margins. Dutch statisticians, actuaries and medical doctors and the methods of demography in the time of Wilhelm Lexis. Workshop on ‘Lexis in Context: German and Eastern&amp; Northern European Contributions to Demography 1860-1910’ at the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, August 28 and 29, 2000.  
         ^ 
           Power C and Elliott J (2006). "Cohort profile: 1958 British Cohort Study". International Journal of Epidemiology. 35 (1): 34–41. doi:10.1093/ije/dyi183. PMID&nbsp;16155052.  
         ^ 
           Elliott J and Shepherd P (2006). "Cohort profile: 1970 British Birth Cohort (BCS70)". International Journal of Epidemiology. 35 (4): 836–43. doi:10.1093/ije/dyl174. PMID&nbsp;16931528.  
         ^ The last three are run by the Centre for Longitudinal Studies  
         ^ a b c d Introduction to environmental engineering and science by Masters and Ela, 2008, Pearson Education, chapter 3  
         ^ See, for example, Barbara A. Anderson and Brian D. Silver, "Estimating Russification of Ethnic Identity Among Non-Russians in the USSR," Demography, Vol. 20, No. 4 (Nov., 1983): 461-489.  
         ^ 
           Lutz, Wolfgang; Sanderson, Warren; Scherbov, Sergei (19 June 1997). "Doubling of world population unlikely" (PDF). Nature. 387 (6635): 803–805. Bibcode:1997Natur.387..803L. doi:10.1038/42935. PMID&nbsp;9194559. S2CID&nbsp;4306159. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 December 2008. Retrieved 2008-11-13.  
         ^ John Bongaarts. The Fertility-Inhibiting Effects of the Intermediate Fertility Variables. Studies in Family Planning, Vol. 13, No. 6/7. (Jun. - Jul., 1982), pp. 179-189.  
         ^ 
           "N C H S - Life Tables".  
         ^ Donald T. Rowland Demographic Methods and Concepts Ch. 11 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-19-875263-6  
         ^ 
           "International Union for the Scientific Study of Population".  
         ^ 
           "Population Association of America".  
         ^ Canadian Population Society Archived 26 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Josef Ehmer, Jens Ehrhardt, Martin Kohli (Eds.): Fertility in the History of the 20th Century: Trends, Theories, Policies, Discourses. Historical Social Research 36 (2), 2011. 
       Glad, John. 2008. Future Human Evolution: Eugenics in the Twenty-First Century. Hermitage Publishers, 
        ISBN&nbsp;1-55779-154-6 
       Gavrilova N.S., Gavrilov L.A. 2011. Ageing and Longevity: Mortality Laws and Mortality Forecasts for Ageing Populations . Demografie, 53(2): 109–128. 
       Preston, Samuel, Patrick Heuveline, and Michel Guillot. 2000. Demography: Measuring and Modeling Population Processes. Blackwell Publishing. 
       Gavrilov L.A., Gavrilova N.S. 2010. Demographic Consequences of Defeating Aging. Rejuvenation Research, 13(2-3): 329–334. 
       Paul R. Ehrlich (1968), The Population Bomb Controversial Neo-Malthusianist pamphlet 
       Leonid A. Gavrilov &amp; Natalia S. Gavrilova (1991), The Biology of Life Span: A Quantitative Approach. New York: Harwood Academic Publisher, 
        ISBN&nbsp;3-7186-4983-7 
       Uhlenberg P. (Editor), (2009) International Handbook of the Demography of Aging, New York: Springer-Verlag, pp.&nbsp;113–131. 
       Paul Demeny and Geoffrey McNicoll (Eds.). 2003. The Encyclopedia of Population. New York, Macmillan Reference USA, vol.1, 32-37 
       Phillip Longman (2004), The Empty Cradle: how falling birth rates threaten global prosperity and what to do about it 
       Sven Kunisch, Stephan A. Boehm, Michael Boppel (eds) (2011). From Grey to Silver: Managing the Demographic Change Successfully, Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-642-15593-2 
       Joe McFalls (2007), Population: A Lively Introduction, Population Reference Bureau 
       Ben J. Wattenberg (2004), How the New Demography of Depopulation Will Shape Our Future. Chicago: R. Dee, 
        ISBN&nbsp;1-56663-606-X
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up demography in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Demography.
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has original works on the topic: Demography
         
       
       
      
       Quick demography data lookup 
       Demography at Curlie 
       Historicalstatistics.org Links to historical demographic and economic statistics 
       United Nations Population Division: Homepage 
        
         World Population Prospects, the 2012 Revision, Population estimates and projections for 230 countries and areas 
         World Urbanization Prospects, the 2011 Revision, Estimates and projections of urban and rural populations and urban agglomerations 
         Probabilistic Population Projections, the 2nd Revision, Probabilistic Population Projections, based on the 2010 Revision of the World Population Prospects.
         
       Java Simulation of Population Dynamics. 
       Basic Guide to the World: Population changes and trends, 1960 to 2003 
       Brief review of world basic demographic trends 
       Family and Fertility Surveys (FFS) 
       Population Division (DESA) (United Nations)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social survey research
           
         
         
          Data collection
          
            
            
             Collection methods 
             Questionnaire 
             Interview 
              
               Structured 
               Semi-structured 
               Unstructured 
               Couple
              
             
           
         
         
          Methodology
          
            
            
             Census 
             Sampling frame 
             Statistical sample 
             Sampling for surveys 
              
               Random sampling 
               Simple random sampling 
               Quota sampling 
               Stratified sampling 
               Nonprobability sampling 
               Sample size determination
               
             Research design 
              
               Panel study 
               Cohort study 
               Cross-sectional study 
               Cross-sequential study
              
             
           
         
         
          Survey errors
          
            
            
             Sampling error 
             Standard error 
             Sampling bias 
             Systematic errors 
             Non-sampling error 
              
               Specification error 
               Frame error 
               Measurement error 
               Response errors 
               Non-response bias 
               Coverage error 
               Pseudo-opinion 
               Processing errors
              
             
           
         
         
          Data analysis
          
            
            
             Categorical data 
             Contingency table 
             Level of measurement 
             Descriptive statistics 
             Exploratory data analysis 
             Multivariate statistics 
             Psychometrics 
             Statistical inference 
             Statistical models 
              
               Graphical 
               Log-linear 
               Structural
              
             
           
         
         
          Applications
          
            
            
             Audience measurement 
             Demography 
             Market research 
             Opinion poll 
             Public opinion
             
           
         
         
          Major surveys
          
            
            
             List of comparative social surveys 
             Afrobarometer 
             American National Election Studies 
             Asian Barometer Survey 
             Comparative Study of Electoral Systems 
             Eurobarometer 
             European Social Survey 
             Gallup Poll 
             General Social Survey 
             Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia Survey 
             International Social Survey 
             Latinobarómetro 
             List of household surveys in the United States 
             National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
             New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study 
             World Values Survey
             
           
         
         
          Associations
          
            
            
             American Association for Public Opinion Research 
             European Society for Opinion and Marketing Research 
             International Statistical Institute 
             Pew Research Center 
             World Association for Public Opinion Research
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category 
             Projects 
              
               Business 
               Politics 
               Psychology 
               Sociology 
               Statistics
              
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Ukraine 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
       
      sex     
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Demography&amp;oldid=1070615292"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Demography
       Actuarial science
       Environmental social science
       Interdisciplinary subfields of sociology
       Human geography
       Market segmentation
       Human populations
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be merged from February 2021
       All articles to be merged
       Use Oxford spelling from August 2016
       Use dmy dates from August 2016
       Use Oxford spelling from September 2015
       Articles needing additional references from September 2020
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2020
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Curlie links
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with EMU identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       Alemannisch
       العربية
       Aragonés
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Беларуская (тарашкевіца)
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Эрзянь
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Føroyskt
       Français
       Frysk
       Galego
       ગુજરાતી
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Кыргызча
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Ligure
       Limburgs
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       मराठी
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Occitan
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       پښتو
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русский
       Саха тыла
       Shqip
       Sicilianu
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Sunda
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       ไทย
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Vèneto
       Tiếng Việt
       Võro
       Winaray
       吴语
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 February 2022, at 11:12&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
