
 
  
   
  Sociology of the Internet - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Sociology of the Internet 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Analysis of Internet communities through sociology
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Anti-internet censorship protest in Frankfurt, Germany.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Sociology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Key themes
           
            
            
             Society 
             Globalization 
             Human behavior 
             Human environmental impact 
             Identity 
             Industrial revolutions 3 &amp; 4 
             Social complexity 
             Social construct 
             Social environment 
             Social equality 
             Social equity 
             Social power 
             Social stratification 
             Social structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Perspectives
           
            
            
             Conflict theory 
             Critical theory 
             Structural functionalism 
             Positivism 
             Social constructionism 
             Symbolic interactionism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aging 
             Architecture 
             Art 
             Astrosociology 
             Body 
             Criminology 
             Consciousness 
             Culture 
             Death 
             Demography 
             Deviance 
             Disaster 
             Economic 
             Education 
             Emotion (Jealousy) 
             Environmental 
             Family 
             Feminist 
             Fiscal 
             Food 
             Gender 
             Generations 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Immigration 
             Industrial 
             Internet 
             Jewry 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Law 
             Leisure 
             Literature 
             Marxist 
             Mathematic 
             Medical 
             Military 
             Music 
             Peace, war, and social conflict 
             Philosophy 
             Political 
             Public 
             Punishment 
             Race and ethnicity 
             Religion 
             Rural 
             Science (History of science) 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociocybernetics 
             Sociology 
             Space 
             Sport 
             Technology 
             Terrorism 
             Urban 
             Utopian 
             Victimology 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Quantitative 
             Qualitative 
             Comparative 
             Computational 
             Ethnographic 
             Conversation analysis 
             Historical 
             Interview 
             Mathematical 
             Network analysis 
             Social experiment 
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
            East Asia 
            
             1900s 
              
               Fei Xiaotong
              
             
            South Asia   
            
             1800s 
              
               G.S Ghurye
               
             1900s 
              
               Irawati Karve 
               M. N. Srinivas
              
             
            Middle East  
            
             1400s 
              
               Ibn Khaldun
              
             
            Europe  
            
             1700s 
              
               Auguste Comte 
               Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès
               
             1800s 
              
               Émile Durkheim 
               Harriet Martineau 
               Karl Marx 
               Georg Simmel 
               Herbert Spencer 
               Ferdinand Tönnies 
               Max Weber
               
             1900s 
              
               Michel Foucault 
               Jürgen Habermas
              
             
            North America  
            
             1800s 
              
               Jane Addams 
               Ernest Burgess 
               W.E.B. Du Bois 
               George Herbert Mead 
               Thorstein Veblen
               
             1900s 
              
               James Coleman 
               Patricia Hill Collins 
               Erving Goffman 
               Paul Lazarsfeld 
               Charles Wright Mills 
               Robert K. Merton 
               Theda Skocpol 
               Dorothy E. Smith
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Bibliography 
             Terminology 
             Journals 
             Organizations 
             People 
             Timeline 
             By country
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Society portal 
           WikiProject Sociology
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Internet
        
        
         
          
           An Opte Project visualization of routing paths through a portion of the Internet
          
        
        
          
          
           
            General
           
            
            
             Access 
             Censorship 
             Democracy 
             Digital divide 
             Digital rights 
             Freedom of information 
             Internet phenomena 
             Net neutrality 
             Privacy 
             Sociology 
             Usage
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Governance
           
            
            
             IGF 
             NRO 
             IANA 
             ICANN 
             IETF 
             ISOC
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Information infrastructure
           
            
            
             Domain Name System 
             Hypertext Transfer Protocol 
             Internet exchange point 
             Internet protocol suite 
              
               Internet Protocol 
               Transmission Control Protocol
               
             Internet service provider 
             IP address 
             Internet Message Access Protocol 
             Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Services
           
            
            
             Blogs 
              
               Microblogging
               
             Email 
             Fax 
             File sharing 
             File transfer 
             Games 
             Instant messaging 
             Podcasts 
             Shopping 
             Television 
             Voice over IP 
             World Wide Web 
              
               search
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            History
           
            
            
             History of the Internet 
             Oldest domain names 
             Pioneers 
             Protocol Wars
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Guides
           
            
            
              Index 
             Outline
            
           
           
        
        
          &nbsp;Internet portal
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      The sociology of the Internet involves the application of sociological theory and method to the Internet as a source of information and communication. The overlapping field of digital sociology focuses on understanding the use of digital media as part of everyday life, and how these various technologies contribute to patterns of human behavior, social relationships, and concepts of the self. Sociologists are concerned with the social implications of the technology; new social networks, virtual communities and ways of interaction that have arisen, as well as issues related to cyber crime. 
      The Internet—the newest in a series of major information breakthroughs—is of interest for sociologists in various ways: as a tool for research, for example, in using online questionnaires instead of paper ones, as a discussion platform, and as a research topic. The sociology of the Internet in the stricter sense concerns the analysis of online communities (e.g. as found in newsgroups), virtual communities and virtual worlds, organizational change catalyzed through new media such as the Internet, and social change at-large in the transformation from industrial to informational society (or to information society). Online communities can be studied statistically through network analysis and at the same time interpreted qualitatively, such as through virtual ethnography. Social change can be studied through statistical demographics or through the interpretation of changing messages and symbols in online media studies.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Emergence of the discipline 
          
          1.1 Digital sociology 
           
        2 Research trends 
        3 Social impact 
        4 Digital Sociology and Data Emotions 
          
          4.1 The impact on children 
          4.2 Political organization and censorship 
          4.3 Economics 
          4.4 Philanthropy 
          4.5 Leisure 
           
        5 Subfields 
          
          5.1 Professional digital practice 
          5.2 Sociological analyses of digital media use 
          5.3 Digital data analysis 
           
        6 Digital Surveillance 
          
          6.1 Critical digital sociology 
          6.2 Public digital sociology 
          6.3 Digital transformation of sociological theory 
           
        7 See also 
        8 Notes 
        9 References 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Emergence of the discipline 
      The Internet is a relatively new phenomenon. As Robert Darnton wrote, it is a revolutionary change that "took place yesterday, or the day before, depending on how you measure it." The Internet developed from the ARPANET, dating back to 1969; as a term it was coined in 1974. The World Wide Web as we know it was shaped in the mid-1990s, when graphical interface and services like email became popular and reached wider (non-scientific and non-military) audiences and commerce. Internet Explorer was first released in 1995; Netscape a year earlier. Google was founded in 1998. Wikipedia was founded in 2001. Facebook, MySpace, and YouTube in the mid-2000s. Web 2.0 is still emerging. The amount of information available on the net and the number of Internet users worldwide has continued to grow rapidly. The term 'digital sociology' is now becoming increasingly used to denote new directions in sociological research into digital technologies since Web 2.0.  
      Digital sociology 
      The first scholarly article to have the term digital sociology in the title appeared in 2009. The author reflects on the ways in which digital technologies may influence both sociological research and teaching. In 2010, 'digital sociology' was described, by Richard Neal, in terms of bridging the growing academic focus with the increasing interest from global business. It was not until 2013 that the first purely academic book tackling the subject of 'digital sociology' was published. The first sole-authored book entitled Digital Sociology was published in 2015, and the first academic conference on "Digital Sociology" was held in New York, NY in the same year. 
      Although the term digital sociology has not yet fully entered the cultural lexicon, sociologists have engaged in research related to the Internet since its inception. These sociologists have addressed many social issues relating to online communities, cyberspace and cyber-identities. This and similar research has attracted many different names such as cyber-sociology, the sociology of the internet, the sociology of online communities, the sociology of social media, the sociology of cyberculture, or something else again. 
      Digital sociology differs from these terms in that it is wider in its scope, addressing not only the Internet or cyberculture but also the impact of the other digital media and devices that have emerged since the first decade of the twenty-first century. Since the Internet has become more pervasive and linked with everyday life, references to the 'cyber' in the social sciences seems now to have been replaced by the 'digital'. 'Digital sociology' is related to other sub-disciplines such as digital humanities and digital anthropology. It is beginning to supersede and incorporate the other titles above, as well as including the newest Web 2.0 digital technologies into its purview, such as wearable technology, augmented reality, smart objects, the Internet of Things and big data.  
      Research trends 
      According to DiMaggio et al. (1999), research tends to focus on the Internet's implications in five domains:  
      
       inequality (the issues of digital divide) 
       public and social capital (the issues of date displacement) 
       political participation (the issues of public sphere, deliberative democracy and civil society) 
       organizations and other economic institutions 
       participatory culture and cultural diversity
       
      Early on, there were predictions that the Internet would change everything (or nothing); over time, however, a consensus emerged that the Internet, at least in the current phase of development, complements rather than displaces previously implemented media. This has meant a rethinking of the 1990s ideas of "convergence of new and old media". Further, the Internet offers a rare opportunity to study changes caused by the newly emerged—and likely, still evolving—information and communication technology (ICT).  
      Social impact 
      The Internet has created social network services, forums of social interaction and social relations, such as Facebook, MySpace, Meetup, and CouchSurfing which facilitate both online and offline interaction. 
      Though virtual communities were once thought to be composed of strictly virtual social ties, researchers often find that even those social ties formed in virtual spaces are often maintained both online and offline 
      There are ongoing debates about the impact of the Internet on strong and weak ties, whether the Internet is creating more or less social capital, the Internet's role in trends towards social isolation, and whether it creates a more or less diverse social environment. 
      It is often said the Internet is a new frontier, and there is a line of argument to the effect that social interaction, cooperation and conflict among users resembles the anarchistic and violent American frontier of the early 19th century. 
      In March 2014, researchers from the Benedictine University at Mesa in Arizona studied how online interactions affect face-to-face meetings. The study is titled, "Face to Face Versus Facebook: Does Exposure to Social Networking Web Sites Augment or Attenuate Physiological Arousal Among the Socially Anxious," published in Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking. They analyzed 26 female students with electrodes to measure social anxiety. Prior to meeting people, the students were shown pictures of the subject they were expected to meet. Researchers found that meeting someone face-to-face after looking at their photos increases arousal, which the study linked to an increase in social anxiety. These findings confirm previous studies that found that socially anxious people prefer online interactions. The study also recognized that the stimulated arousal can be associated with positive emotions and could lead to positive feelings. 
      Recent research has taken the Internet of Things within its purview, as global networks of interconnected everyday objects are said to be the next step in technological advancement. Certainly, global space- and earth-based networks are expanding coverage of the IoT at a fast pace. This has a wide variety of consequences, with current applications in the health, agriculture, traffic and retail fields. Companies such as Samsung and Sigfox have invested heavily in said networks, and their social impact will have to be measured accordingly, with some sociologists suggesting the formation of socio-technical networks of humans and technical systems. Issues of privacy, right to information, legislation and content creation will come into public scrutiny in light of these technological changes.  
      Digital Sociology and Data Emotions 
      Digital sociology is connected with data and data emotions Data emotions happens when people use digital technologies that can effect their decision making skills or emotions. Social media platforms collects users data while also effecting their emotional state of mind, which causes either solidarity or social engagement amongst users. Social media platforms such as Instagram and Twitter can evoke emotions of love, affection, and empathy. Viral challenges such as the 2014 Ice Bucket Challenge and viral memes has brought people together through mass participation displaying cultural knowledge and understanding of self. Mass participation in viral events prompts users to spread information (data) to one another effecting psychological state of mind and emotions. The link between digital sociology and data emotions is formed through the integration of technological devices within everyday life and activities.  
      The impact on children 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Technological devices can be used intensively.
        
       
      
      Researchers have investigated the use of technology (as opposed to the Internet) by children and how it can be used excessively, where it can cause medical health and psychological issues. The use of technological devices by children can cause them to become addicted to them and can lead them to experience negative effects such as depression, attention problems, loneliness, anxiety, aggression and solitude. Obesity is another result from the use of technology by children, due to how children may prefer to use their technological devices rather than doing any form of physical activity. Parents can take control and implement restrictions to the use of technological devices by their children, which will decrease the negative results technology can have if it is prioritized as well as help put a limit to it being used excessively. 
      Children can use technology to enhance their learning skills - for example: using online programs to improve the way they learn how to read or do math. The resources technology provides for children may enhance their skills, but children should be cautious of what they get themselves into due to how cyber bullying may occur. Cyber bullying can cause academic and psychological effects due to how children are suppressed by people who bully them through the Internet. When technology is introduced to children they are not forced to accept it, but instead children are permitted to have an input on what they feel about either deciding to use their technological device or not. Social exclusion in the classroom occurs to children who associate themselves more with using computers, which causes them to exclude themselves from the classroom's everyday context due to how they grow more attached to the device. Children who are socially popular are the ones who try and get away from using any form of technological skills they can possibly develop due to how they believe technological devices, such as a computer can be a threat to their social identities. The routines of children have changed due to their use of the technological device they have been introduced to, but "while the children's health and quality of life benefited from the technology, the time demands of the care routines and lack of compatibility with other social and institutional timeframes had some negative implications". Children prioritizing their technological device has put a limit on their capabilities to take part in employment, school and in having a social life overall. 
      Technology can have negative impacts on the lives of children and can be an essential learning tool that can encourage cognitive, linguistic and social development. Children that use technological devices have had greater gains in problem-solving, intelligence, language skills and structural knowledge in comparison to those children who have not incorporated the use of technology in their learning. In research conducted, "studies did find improvements in student scores on tests closely related to material covered in computer-assisted instructional packages", which demonstrates how technology can have positive influences on children by improving their learning capabilities. Problems have arisen between children and their parents as well when parents limit what children can use their technological devices for, specifically what they can and cannot watch on their devices, making children frustrated. Studies have found that "the average child in this country spends over 6 hours each day with some form of mediated communication", meaning that children spend more time with their technological device rather than spending that time with their family or friends. The introduction of technology to children has the positive outcome of increasing a child's learning capabilities, but can have the negative outcome of affecting a child's behavior in acting more isolated from the rest of society.  
      Political organization and censorship 
      
      
       See also: Internet censorship
       
      The Internet has achieved new relevance as a political tool. The presidential campaign of Howard Dean in 2004 in the United States became famous for its ability to generate donations via the Internet, and the 2008 campaign of Barack Obama became even more so. Increasingly, social movements and other organizations use the Internet to carry out both traditional and the new Internet activism. 
      Some governments are also getting online. Some countries, such as those of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar, the People's Republic of China, and Saudi Arabia use filtering and censoring software to restrict what people in their countries can access on the Internet. In the United Kingdom, they also use software to locate and arrest various individuals they perceive as a threat. Other countries including the United States, have enacted laws making the possession or distribution of certain material such as child pornography illegal but do not use filtering software. In some countries Internet service providers have agreed to restrict access to sites listed by police.  
      Economics 
      While much has been written of the economic advantages of Internet-enabled commerce, there is also evidence that some aspects of the Internet such as maps and location-aware services may serve to reinforce economic inequality and the digital divide. Electronic commerce may be responsible for consolidation and the decline of mom-and-pop, brick and mortar businesses resulting in increases in income inequality.  
      Philanthropy 
      The spread of low-cost Internet access in developing countries has opened up new possibilities for peer-to-peer charities, which allow individuals to contribute small amounts to charitable projects for other individuals. Websites such as Donors Choose and Global Giving now allow small-scale donors to direct funds to individual projects of their choice. 
      A popular twist on Internet-based philanthropy is the use of peer-to-peer lending for charitable purposes. Kiva pioneered this concept in 2005, offering the first web-based service to publish individual loan profiles for funding. Kiva raises funds for local intermediary microfinance organizations which post stories and updates on behalf of the borrowers. Lenders can contribute as little as $25 to loans of their choice, and receive their money back as borrowers repay. Kiva falls short of being a pure peer-to-peer charity, in that loans are disbursed before being funded by lenders and borrowers do not communicate with lenders themselves. However, the recent spread of cheap Internet access in developing countries has made genuine peer-to-peer connections increasingly feasible. In 2009 the US-based nonprofit Zidisha tapped into this trend to offer the first peer-to-peer microlending platform to link lenders and borrowers across international borders without local intermediaries. Inspired by interactive websites such as Facebook and eBay, Zidisha's microlending platform facilitates direct dialogue between lenders and borrowers and a performance rating system for borrowers. Web users worldwide can fund loans for as little as a dollar.  
      Leisure 
      
      
       See also: sociology of leisure
       
      The Internet has been a major source of leisure since before the World Wide Web, with entertaining social experiments such as MUDs and MOOs being conducted on university servers, and humor-related Usenet groups receiving much of the main traffic. Today, many Internet forums have sections devoted to games and funny videos; short cartoons in the form of Flash movies are also popular. Over 6 million people use blogs or message boards as a means of communication and for the sharing of ideas. 
      The pornography and gambling industries have both taken full advantage of the World Wide Web, and often provide a significant source of advertising revenue for other websites. Although governments have made attempts to censor Internet porn, Internet service providers have told governments that these plans are not feasible. Also many governments have attempted to put restrictions on both industries' use of the Internet, this has generally failed to stop their widespread popularity. 
      One area of leisure on the Internet is online gaming. This form of leisure creates communities, bringing people of all ages and origins to enjoy the fast-paced world of multiplayer games. These range from MMORPG to first-person shooters, from role-playing video games to online gambling. This has revolutionized the way many people interact and spend their free time on the Internet. 
      While online gaming has been around since the 1970s, modern modes of online gaming began with services such as GameSpy and MPlayer, to which players of games would typically subscribe. Non-subscribers were limited to certain types of gameplay or certain games. 
      Many use the Internet to access and download music, movies and other works for their enjoyment and relaxation. As discussed above, there are paid and unpaid sources for all of these, using centralized servers and distributed peer-to-peer technologies. Discretion is needed as some of these sources take more care over the original artists' rights and over copyright laws than others. 
      Many use the World Wide Web to access news, weather and sports reports, to plan and book holidays and to find out more about their random ideas and casual interests. 
      People use chat, messaging and e-mail to make and stay in touch with friends worldwide, sometimes in the same way as some previously had pen pals. Social networking websites like MySpace, Facebook and many others like them also put and keep people in contact for their enjoyment. 
      The Internet has seen a growing number of Web desktops, where users can access their files, folders, and settings via the Internet. 
      Cyberslacking has become a serious drain on corporate resources; the average UK employee spends 57 minutes a day surfing the Web at work, according to a study by Peninsula Business Services.  
      Subfields 
      Four aspects of digital sociology have been identified by Lupton (2012):  
      
       Professional digital practice: using digital media tools for professional purposes: to build networks, construct an e-profile, publicise and share research and instruct students. 
       Sociological analyses of digital use: researching the ways in which people's use of digital media configures their sense of selves, their embodiment and their social relations. 
       Digital data analysis: using digital data for social research, either quantitative or qualitative. 
       Critical digital sociology: undertaking reflexive and critical analysis of digital media informed by social and cultural theory.
       
      Professional digital practice 
      Although they have been reluctant to use social and other digital media for professional academics purposes, sociologists are slowly beginning to adopt them for teaching and research. An increasing number of sociological blogs are beginning to appear and more sociologists are joining Twitter, for example. Some are writing about the best ways for sociologists to employ social media as part of academic practice and the importance of self-archiving and making sociological research open access, as well as writing for Wikipedia.  
      Sociological analyses of digital media use 
      Digital sociologists have begun to write about the use of wearable technologies as part of quantifying the body and the social dimensions of big data and the algorithms that are used to interpret these data. Others have directed attention at the role of digital technologies as part of the surveillance of people's activities, via such technologies as CCTV cameras and customer loyalty schemes as well as the mass surveillance of the Internet that is being conducted by secret services such as the NSA. 
      The 'digital divide', or the differences in access to digital technologies experienced by certain social groups such as the socioeconomically disadvantaged, those of lower education levels, women and the elderly, has preoccupied many researchers in the social scientific study of digital media. However several sociologists have pointed out that while it is important to acknowledge and identify the structural inequalities inherent in differentials in digital technology use, this concept is rather simplistic and fails to incorporate the complexities of access to and knowledge about digital technologies. 
      There is a growing interest in the ways in which social media contribute to the development of intimate relationships and concepts of the self. One of the best-known sociologists who has written about social relationships, selfhood and digital technologies is Sherry Turkle. In her most recent book Turkle addresses the topic of social media. She argues that relationships conducted via these platforms are not as authentic as those encounters that take place "in real life". 
      Visual media allows the viewer to be a more passive consumer of information. Viewers are more likely to develop online personas that differ from their personas in the real world. This contrast between the digital world (or 'cyberspace') and the 'real world', however, has been critiqued as 'digital dualism', a concept similar to the 'aura of the digital'. Other sociologists have argued that relationships conducted through digital media are inextricably part of the 'real world'. Augmented reality is an interactive experience where reality is being altered in some way by the use of digital media but not replaced. 
      The use of social media for social activism have also provided a focus for digital sociology. For example, numerous sociological articles, and at least one book have appeared on the use of such social media platforms as Twitter, YouTube and Facebook as a means of conveying messages about activist causes and organizing political movements. 
      Research has also been done on how racial minorities and the use of technology by racial minorities and other groups. These "digital practice" studies explore the ways in which the practices that groups adopt when using new technologies mitigate or reproduce social inequalities.  
      Digital data analysis 
      Digital sociologists use varied approaches to investigating people's use of digital media, both qualitative and quantitative. These include ethnographic research, interviews and surveys with users of technologies, and also the analysis of the data produced from people's interactions with technologies: for example, their posts on social media platforms such as Facebook, Reddit, 4chan, Tumblr and Twitter or their consuming habits on online shopping platforms. Such techniques as data scraping, social network analysis, time series analysis and textual analysis are employed to analyze both the data produced as a byproduct of users' interactions with digital media and those that they create themselves. For Contents Analysis, in 2008, Yukihiko Yoshida did a study called "Leni Riefenstahl and German expressionism: research in Visual Cultural Studies using the trans-disciplinary semantic spaces of specialized dictionaries." The study took databases of images tagged with connotative and denotative keywords (a search engine) and found Riefenstahl's imagery had the same qualities as imagery tagged "degenerate" in the title of the exhibition, "Degenerate Art" in Germany at 1937. 
      The emergence of social media has provided sociologists with a new way of studying social phenomenon. Social media networks, such as Facebook and Twitter, are increasingly being mined for research. For example, Twitter data is easily available to researchers through the Twitter API. Twitter provides researchers with demographic data, time and location data, and connections between users. From these data, researchers gain insight into user moods and how they communicate with one another. Furthermore, social networks can be graphed and visualized. 
      Using large data sets, like those obtained from Twitter, can be challenging. First of all, researchers have to figure out how to store this data effectively in a database. Several tools commonly used in Big Data analytics are at their disposal. Since large data sets can be unwieldy and contain numerous types of data (i.e. photos, videos, GIF images), researchers have the option of storing their data in non-relational databases, such as MongoDB and Hadoop. Processing and querying this data is an additional challenge. However, there are several options available to researchers. One common option is to use a querying language, such as Hive, in conjunction with Hadoop to analyze large data sets. 
      The Internet and social media have allowed sociologists to study how controversial topics are discussed over time—otherwise known as Issue Mapping. Sociologists can search social networking sites (i.e. Facebook or Twitter) for posts related to a hotly-debated topic, then parse through and analyze the text. Sociologists can then use a number of easily accessible tools to visualize this data, such as MentionMapp or Twitter Streamgraph. MentionMapp shows how popular a hashtag is and Twitter Streamgraph depicts how often certain words are paired together and how their relationship changes over time.  
      Digital Surveillance 
      Digital surveillance occur when digital devices record people's daily activities, collecting and storing personal data, and invading privacy. With the advancement of new technologies, the act of monitoring and watching people online has increased between the years of 2010-2020.The invasion of privacy and recording people without consent leads to people doubting the usage of technologies which are suppose to secure and protect personal information. The storage of data and intrusiveness in digital surveillance effects human behavior. The psychological implications of digital surveillance can cause people to have concern, worry, or fear about feeling monitored all the time. Digital data is stored within security technologies, apps, social media platforms, and other technological devices that can be used in various ways for various reasons. Data collected from people using the internet can be subject to being monitored and viewed by private and public companies, friends, and other known or unknown entities.  
      Critical digital sociology 
      This aspect of digital sociology is perhaps what makes it distinctive from other approaches to studying the digital world. In adopting a critical reflexive approach, sociologists are able to address the implications of the digital for sociological practice itself. It has been argued that digital sociology offers a way of addressing the changing relations between social relations and the analysis of these relations, putting into question what social research is, and indeed, what sociology is now as social relations and society have become in many respects mediated via digital technologies. 
      How should sociology respond to the emergent forms of both 'small data' and 'big data' that are collected in vast amounts as part of people's interactions with digital technologies and the development of data industries using these data to conduct their own social research? Does this suggest that a "coming crisis in empirical sociology" might be on the horizon? How are the identities and work practices of sociologists themselves becoming implicated within and disciplined by digital technologies such as citation metrics? 
      These questions are central to critical digital sociology, which reflects upon the role of sociology itself in the analysis of digital technologies as well as the impact of digital technologies upon sociology. 
      To these four aspects add the following subfields of digital sociology:  
      Public digital sociology 
      Public sociology using digital media is a form of public sociology that involves publishing sociological materials in online accessible spaces and subsequent interaction with publics in these spaces. This has been referred to as "e-public sociology". 
      Social media has changed the ways the public sociology was perceived and given rise to digital evolution in this field. The vast open platform of communication has provided opportunities for sociologists to come out from the notion of small group sociology or publics to a vast audience. 
      Blogging was the initial social media platform being utilized by sociologists. Sociologists like Eszter Hargittai, Chris Bertram, and Kieran Healy were few amongst those who started using blogging for sociology. New discussion groups about sociology and related philosophy were the consequences of social media impact. The vast number of comments and discussions thus became a part of understanding sociology. One of such famous groups was Crooked Timber. Getting feedback on such social sites is faster and impactful. Disintermediation, visibility, and measurement are the major effects of e-public sociology. Other social media tools like Twitter and Facebook also became the tools for a sociologist. "Public Sociology in the Age of Social Media".  
      Digital transformation of sociological theory 
      
      
       See also: Sociological theory
       
      Information and communication technology as well as the proliferation of digital data are revolutionizing sociological research. Whereas there is already much methodological innovation in digital humanities and computational social sciences, theory development in the social sciences and humanities still consists mainly of print theories of computer cultures or societies. These analogue theories of the digital transformation, however, fail to account for how profoundly the digital transformation of the social sciences and humanities is changing the epistemic core of these fields. Digital methods constitute more than providers of ever-bigger digital datasets for testing of analogue theories, but also require new forms of digital theorising. The ambition of research programmes on the digital transformation of social theory is therefore to translate analogue into digital social theories so as to complement traditional analogue social theories of the digital transformation by digital theories of digital societies. 
        
      See also 
      
       
        
        Freedom of speech portal 
        Internet portal
       
       
      
       Anthropology of cyberspace 
       Computational social science 
       Cyber-dissident 
       Digital anthropology 
       Digital humanities 
       Digital Revolution 
       Internet culture 
       Social informatics 
       Social web 
       Sociology of science and technology 
       Sociology of the Internet 
       Software studies 
       Technology and society 
       Tribe (internet)
       
      Notes 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c Robert Darnton, The Library in the New Age, The New York Review of Books, Volume 55, Number 10. June 12, 2008. Retrieved on 22 December 2009.  
        ^ a b c d e f Paul DiMaggio, Eszter Hargittai, W. Russell Neuman, and John P. Robinson, Social Implications of the Internet, Annual Review of Sociology, Vol. 27: 307-336 (Volume publication date August 2001), doi:10.1146/annurev.soc.27.1.307   
        ^ Wynn, J. (2009) Digital sociology: emergent technologies in the field and the classroom. Sociological Forum, 24(2), 448--456  
        ^ Neal, R. (2010) Expanding Sentience: Introducing Digital Sociology for moving beyond Buzz Metrics in a World of Growing Online Socialization. Lulu  
        ^ Orton-Johnson, K. and Prior, N. (eds) (2013) Digital Sociology: Critical Perspectives. Houndmills: Palgrave Macmillan  
        ^ a b Lupton, D. (2015) Digital Sociology. London: Routledge  
        ^ Daniels, J., Gregory, K., Cottom, T.M. Digital Sociology MiniConference, organized in conjunction with the Eastern Sociological Society meetings, February 27–28, 2015. http://digsoc.commons.gc.cuny.edu/conference-papers-2015/  
        ^ Lauren F. Sessions, "How offline gatherings affect online community members: when virtual community members ‘meetup’.""Information, Communication, and Society"13,3(April, 2010):375-395  
        ^ Bo Xie, B. ‘The mutual shaping of online and offline social relationships."Information Research, 1,3(2008):n.p.  
        ^ Lee Rainie, John Horrigan, Barry Wellman, and Jeffrey Boase. (2006)"The Strength of Internet Ties" Pew Internet and American Life Project. Washington, D.C.  
        ^ Ellison, N. B., Steinfield, C., &amp; Lampe, C. (2007). The benefits of Facebook "friends:" Social capital and college students' use of online social network sites. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 12(4).  
        ^ "Social Isolation and New Technology". 4 November 2009.  
        ^ Richard Jensen. "Military History on the Electronic Frontier: Wikipedia Fights the War of 1812," The Journal of Military History (October 2012) 76#4 pp 1165-82 online  
        ^ 
          Charles, Megan (7 March 2014). "Meeting Facebook Friends Face To Face Causes Anxiety (Study)". Business 2 Community. Retrieved 7 March 2014.  
        ^ 
          Atzori, Luigi; Iera, Antonio; Morabito, Giacomo; Nitti, Michele (2012). "The Social Internet of Things (SIoT) – When social networks meet the Internet of Things: Concept, architecture and network characterization". Computer Networks. 56 (16): 3594–3608. doi:10.1016/j.comnet.2012.07.010. ISSN&nbsp;1389-1286.  
        ^ a b 
          Mattern, Friedemann; Floerkemeier, Christian (2010). "From the Internet of Computers to the Internet of Things". From Active Data Management to Event-Based Systems and More. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol.&nbsp;6462. pp.&nbsp;242–259. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.171.145. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-17226-7_15. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-642-17225-0. ISSN&nbsp;0302-9743.  
        ^ 
          Simonite, Tom. "Silicon Valley to Get a Cellular Network, Just for Things". Technology Review. Technology Review. Retrieved 27 May 2015.  
        ^ Kranz, Matthias, Luis Roalter, and Florian Michahelles. "Things that twitter: social networks and the internet of things." What can the Internet of Things do for the Citizen (CIoT) Workshop at The Eighth International Conference on Pervasive Computing (Pervasive 2010). 2010.  
        ^ 
          Weber, Rolf H. (2010). "Internet of Things – New security and privacy challenges". Computer Law &amp; Security Review. 26 (1): 23–30. doi:10.1016/j.clsr.2009.11.008. ISSN&nbsp;0267-3649.  
        ^ a b 
          Fussey and Roth, Pete and Silke (June 1, 2020). "Digitizing Sociology: Continuity and Change in the Internet Era". Department of Sociology.  
        ^ a b 
          Rosen, L. D; Lim, A. F; Felt, J; Carrier, L. M; Cheever, N. A; Lara-Ruiz, J. M; Mendoza, J. S; Rokkum, J (2014). "Media and technology use predicts ill-being among children, preteens and teenagers independent of the negative health impacts of exercise and eating habits". Computers in Human Behavior. 35: 364–375. doi:10.1016/j.chb.2014.01.036. PMC&nbsp;4338000. PMID&nbsp;25717216.  
        ^ a b http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/pediatrics/132/5/958.full.pdf  
        ^ 
          "Download Limit Exceeded". CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.688.1918. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ 
          Druin, Allison (1999-10-02). "The Role of Children in the Design Technology". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^   
        ^ https://www.york.ac.uk/res/iht/projects/l218252023/Heatonhsc_571.pdf  
        ^ https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ898529.pdf  
        ^ https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED452818.pdf  
        ^ a b  "Communication, Conflict, and the Quality of Family Relationships" by Alan Sillars, Daniel J. Canary and Melissa Tafoya in Handbook of Family Communication, edited by Anita L. Vangelisti. Mahwah, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Aassociates, Publishers, 2004.  
        ^ "How the Internet Reinforces Inequality in the Real World" The Atlantic February 6, 2013  
        ^ "E-commerce will make the shopping mall a retail wasteland" ZDNet, January 17, 2013  
        ^ Kiva Is Not Quite What It Seems Archived 2010-02-10 at the Wayback Machine, by David Roodman, Center for Global Development, Oct. 2, 2009, as accessed Jan. 2 &amp; 16, 2010  
        ^ Confusion on Where Money Lent via Kiva Goes, by Stephanie Strom, in The New York Times, Nov. 8, 2009, as accessed Jan. 2 &amp; 16, 2010  
        ^ "Zidisha Set to "Expand" in Peer-to-Peer Microfinance", Microfinance Focus, Feb 2010 Archived 2011-10-08 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ 
          Chivers, Tom (Dec 21, 2010). "Internet pornography block plans: other attempts to control the internet". The Telegraph. Retrieved 24 February 2012.  
        ^ Scotsman.com News - Net abuse hits small city firms  
        ^ Lupton, D. (2012) "Digital sociology: an introduction". Sydney: University of Sydney  
        ^ Carrigan, M. (2013) "The emergence of sociological media? Is social media becoming mainstream within UK sociology?". Mark Carrigan.net  
        ^ Lupton, D. (2013) "Quantifying the body: monitoring and measuring health in the age of mHealth technologies". Critical Public Health  
        ^ Cheney-Lippold, J. (2011) "A new algorithmic identity: soft biopolitics and the modulation of control". Theory, Culture &amp; Society, 28(6), 164-81.  
        ^ Graham, S. and Wood, D. (2003) "Digitizing surveillance: categorization, space, inequality". Critical Social Policy, 23(2),227-48.  
        ^ Willis, S. and Tranter, B. (2006) "Beyond the 'digital divide': Internet diffusion and inequality in Australia". Journal of Sociology, 42(1), 43-59  
        ^ Turkle, S. (1984) "The Second Self: Computers and the Human Spirit". New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.  
        ^ Turkle, S. (1995) "Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet". New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.  
        ^ Turkle, S. (2011) Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Each Other. New York: Basic Books  
        ^ 
          Wynn, Jonathan R. "Digital Sociology: Emergent Technologies in the Field and the Classroom". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ Betancourt, M. (2006) "The Aura of the Digital", CTheory  
        ^ Jurgenson, N. (2012) "When atoms meet bits: social media, the mobile web and augmented revolution". Future Internet, 4, 83-91  
        ^ Maireder, A. and Schwartzenegger, C. (2011) A movement of connected individuals: social media in the Austrian student protests 2009. Information, Communication &amp; Society, 15(2), 1-25.  
        ^ Lim, M. (2012) "Clicks, cabs, and coffee houses: social media and oppositional movements in Egypt", 2004-2011. Journal of Communication, 62(2), 231-248.  
        ^ Murthy, D. (2013) Twitter: Social Communication in the Twitter Age. Cambridge: Polity Press.  
        ^ Graham, R. (2014) The Digital Practices of African Americans: An Approach to Studying Cultural Change in the Information Society. New York: Peter Lang.  
        ^ Graham, R. (2016) "The Content of Our #Characters: Black Twitter as Counterpublic". Sociology of Race and Ethnicity, 2(4) 433 – 449  
        ^ Yoshida,Yukihiko, Leni Riefenstahl and German Expressionism: A Study of Visual Cultural Studies Using Transdisciplinary Semantic Space of Specialized Dictionaries ,Technoetic Arts: a journal of speculative research (Editor Roy Ascott),Volume 8, Issue3,intellect,2008  
        ^ a b c d 
          Murthy, Dhiraj; Bowman, Sawyer A (2014-11-25). "Big Data solutions on a small scale: Evaluating accessible high-performance computing for social research". Big Data &amp; Society. 1 (2): 205395171455910. doi:10.1177/2053951714559105.  
        ^ a b c 
          Marres, Noortje; Gerlitz, Carolin (2015-08-14). "Interface Methods: Renegotiating Relations between Digital Social Research, STS and Sociology" (PDF). The Sociological Review. 64 (1): 21–46. doi:10.1111/1467-954x.12314.  
        ^ Marres. N. (2013) "What is digital sociology?" CSISP Online  
        ^ Savage, M. and Burrows, R. (2007) "The coming crisis of empirical sociology" Archived 2013-03-13 at the Wayback Machine. Sociology, 41(5),885-889  
        ^ Burrows, R. (2012) Living with the h-index? Metric assemblages in the contemporary academy. The Sociological Review, 60(2), 355—72.  
        ^ Lupton, D. (2012) "Digital sociology part 3: digital research". This Sociological Life  
        ^ Christopher J. Schneider (2014). Social Media and e-Public Sociology. In Ariane Hanemaayer and Christopher J. Schneider, editors, The Public Sociology Debate: Ethics and Engagement, University of British Columbia Press: 205-224  
        ^ Healy, Kieran. "Public Sociology in the Age of Social Media." Berkeley Sociology Journal (2015): 1-16. APA  
        ^ Kitchin, R. "Big Data, new epistemologies and paradigm shifts." Big Data &amp; Society, 1(1) (2014): DOI: 10.1177/2053951714528481. APA  
        ^ Roth S., Dahms H., Welz F., and Cattacin S. (2019) "Digital transformation of social theory". Special Issue of Technological Forecasting and Social Change.  
       
       
      References 
      
       John A. Bargh and Katelyn Y. A. McKenna, The Internet and Social Life, Annual Review of Psychology, Vol. 55: 573-560 (Volume publication date February 2004), doi:10.1146/annurev.psych.55.090902.141922  
       Allison Cavanagh, Sociology in the Age of the Internet, McGraw-Hill International, 2007, 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780335217267 
       
        Dolata, Ulrich; Schrape, Jan-Felix (2018). Collectivity and Power on the Internet. A Sociological Perspective. London Cham: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-78414-4. ISBN&nbsp;9783319784137. 
       Christine Hine, Virtual Methods: Issues in Social Research on the Internet, Berg Publishers, 2005, 
        ISBN&nbsp;9781845200855 
       Rob Kling, The Internet for Sociologists, Contemporary Sociology, Vol. 26, No. 4 (Jul., 1997), pp.&nbsp;434–758 
       Joan Ferrante-Wallace, Joan Ferrante, Sociology.net: Sociology on the Internet, Thomson Wadsworth, 1996, 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780534527563 
       Daniel A. Menchik and Xiaoli Tian. (2008) "Putting Social Context into Text: The Semiotics of Email Interaction." The American Journal of Sociology. 114:2 pp.&nbsp;332–70. 
       Carla G. Surratt, "The Internet and Social Change", McFarland, 2001, 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0786410194 
       D. R. Wilson, Researching Sociology on the Internet, Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780534568955 
       Cottom, T.M. Why is Digital Sociology. https://tressiemc.com/uncategorized/why-is-digital-sociology 
       Lupton, D. (2015) Digital Sociology. Routledge 2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN.711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017.https://edisciplinas.usp.br/pluginfile.php/4408475/mod_resource/content/1/Lupton-Digital%20Sociology%282014%29.pdf 
       Fussey, P.,&amp; Roth, S. (2020) Digitizing Sociology: Continuity and Change in the Internet Era. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.177/0038038520918562
       
      External links 
      
       What is Internet Sociology and Why Does it Matter? 
       Internet Sociology in Germany Website of Germanys first Internet Sociologist Stephan G. Humer, established in 1999 
       Sociology and the Internet (A short introduction, originally put-together for delegates to the ATSS 2001 Conference.) 
       Peculiarities of Cyberspace&nbsp;— Building Blocks for an Internet Sociology (Articles the social structure and dynamic of internetcommunities. Presented by dr Albert Benschop, University of Amsterdam.) 
       Communication and Information Technologies Section of the American Sociological Association 
       The Impact of the Internet on Sociology: The Importance of the Communication and Information Technologies Section of the American Sociological Association 
       Sociology and the Internet (course) 
       Sociology of the Internet (link collection) 
       Internet sociologist 
       The Sociology of the Internet 
       Digital Sociology 
       Culture Digitally blog 
       Cyborgology blog 
       Digital Sociology storify
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sociology_of_the_Internet&amp;oldid=1067793515"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Internet culture
       Social networks
       Sociology of the internet
       Internet
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from May 2021
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from September 2018
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from September 2018
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Français
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Bahasa Melayu
       Polski
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Türkçe
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 January 2022, at 05:26&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
