
 
  
   
  Urban sociology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Urban sociology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Singapore National Day Parade 2011 fireworks preview marina bay sands floating platform.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Sociology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Key themes
           
            
            
             Society 
             Globalization 
             Human behavior 
             Human environmental impact 
             Identity 
             Industrial revolutions 3 &amp; 4 
             Social complexity 
             Social construct 
             Social environment 
             Social equality 
             Social equity 
             Social power 
             Social stratification 
             Social structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Perspectives
           
            
            
             Conflict theory 
             Critical theory 
             Structural functionalism 
             Positivism 
             Social constructionism 
             Symbolic interactionism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aging 
             Architecture 
             Art 
             Astrosociology 
             Body 
             Criminology 
             Consciousness 
             Culture 
             Death 
             Demography 
             Deviance 
             Disaster 
             Economic 
             Education 
             Emotion (Jealousy) 
             Environmental 
             Family 
             Feminist 
             Fiscal 
             Food 
             Gender 
             Generations 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Immigration 
             Industrial 
             Internet 
             Jewry 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Law 
             Leisure 
             Literature 
             Marxist 
             Mathematic 
             Medical 
             Military 
             Music 
             Peace, war, and social conflict 
             Philosophy 
             Political 
             Public 
             Punishment 
             Race and ethnicity 
             Religion 
             Rural 
             Science (History of science) 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociocybernetics 
             Sociology 
             Space 
             Sport 
             Technology 
             Terrorism 
             Urban 
             Utopian 
             Victimology 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Quantitative 
             Qualitative 
             Comparative 
             Computational 
             Ethnographic 
             Conversation analysis 
             Historical 
             Interview 
             Mathematical 
             Network analysis 
             Social experiment 
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
            East Asia 
            
             1900s 
              
               Fei Xiaotong
              
             
            South Asia   
            
             1800s 
              
               G.S Ghurye
               
             1900s 
              
               Irawati Karve 
               M. N. Srinivas
              
             
            Middle East  
            
             1400s 
              
               Ibn Khaldun
              
             
            Europe  
            
             1700s 
              
               Auguste Comte 
               Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès
               
             1800s 
              
               Émile Durkheim 
               Harriet Martineau 
               Karl Marx 
               Georg Simmel 
               Herbert Spencer 
               Ferdinand Tönnies 
               Max Weber
               
             1900s 
              
               Michel Foucault 
               Jürgen Habermas
              
             
            North America  
            
             1800s 
              
               Jane Addams 
               Ernest Burgess 
               W.E.B. Du Bois 
               George Herbert Mead 
               Thorstein Veblen
               
             1900s 
              
               James Coleman 
               Patricia Hill Collins 
               Erving Goffman 
               Paul Lazarsfeld 
               Charles Wright Mills 
               Robert K. Merton 
               Theda Skocpol 
               Dorothy E. Smith
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Bibliography 
             Terminology 
             Journals 
             Organizations 
             People 
             Timeline 
             By country
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Society portal 
           WikiProject Sociology
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Urban sociology is the sociological study of life and human interaction in metropolitan areas. It is a normative discipline of sociology seeking to study the structures, environmental processes, changes and problems of an urban area and by doing so provide inputs for urban planning and policy making. In other words, it is the sociological study of cities and their role in the development of society. Like most areas of sociology, urban sociologists use statistical analysis, observation, social theory, interviews, and other methods to study a range of topics, including migration and demographic trends, economics, poverty, race relations and economic trends. Urban sociology is one of the oldest sub-disciplines of sociology dating back to the mid-nineteenth century. 
      The philosophical foundations of modern urban sociology originate from the work of sociologists such as Karl Marx, Ferdinand Tönnies, Émile Durkheim, Max Weber and Georg Simmel who studied and theorized the economic, social and cultural processes of urbanization and its effects on social alienation, class formation, and the production or destruction of collective and individual identities. 
      These theoretical foundations were further expanded upon and analyzed by a group of sociologists and researchers who worked at the University of Chicago in the early twentieth century. In what became known as the Chicago School of sociology the work of Robert Park, Louis Wirth and Ernest Burgess on the inner city of Chicago revolutionized not only the purpose of urban research in sociology, but also the development of human geography through its use of quantitative and ethnographic research methods. The importance of the theories developed by the Chicago School within urban sociology have been critically sustained and critiqued but still remain one of the most significant historical advancements in understanding urbanization and the city within the social sciences. The discipline may draw from several fields, including cultural sociology, economic sociology, and political sociology.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Development and rise 
        2 Evolution of the discipline 
        3 Criticism 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
          
          5.1 Further reading 
           
        
       
      Development and rise 
      
      
       Further information: Chicago school (sociology)
       
      Urban sociology rose to prominence within North American academics through a group of sociologists and theorists at the University of Chicago from 1915 to 1940 in what became known as the Chicago School of Sociology. The Chicago School of Sociology combined sociological and anthropological theory with ethnographic fieldwork in order to understand how individuals interact within urban social systems. Unlike the primarily macro-based sociology that had marked earlier subfields, members of the Chicago School placed greater emphasis on micro-scale social interactions that sought to provide subjective meaning to how humans interact under structural, cultural and social conditions. The theory of symbolic interaction, the basis through which many methodologically-groundbreaking ethnographies were framed in this period, took primitive shape alongside urban sociology and shaped its early methodological leanings. Symbolic interaction was forged out of the writings of early micro-sociologists George Mead and Max Weber, and sought to frame how individuals interpret symbols in everyday interactions. With early urban sociologists framing the city as a 'superorganism', the concept of symbolic interaction aided in parsing out how individual communities contribute to the seamless functioning of the city itself. 
      Scholars of the Chicago School originally sought to answer a single question: how did an increase in urbanism during the time of the Industrial Revolution contribute to the magnification of contemporary social problems? Sociologists centered on Chicago due to its tabula rasa state, having expanded from a small town of 10,000 in 1860 to an urban metropolis of over two million in the next half-century. Along with this expansion came many of the era's emerging social problems – ranging from issues with concentrated homelessness and harsh living conditions to the low wages and long hours that characterized the work of the many newly arrived European immigrants. Furthermore, unlike many other metropolitan areas, Chicago did not expand outward at the edges as predicted by early expansionist theorists, but instead 'reformatted' the space available in a concentric ring pattern. As with many modern cities the business district occupied the city center and was surrounded by slum and blighted neighborhoods, which were further surrounded by workingmens' homes and the early forms of the modern suburbs. Urban theorists suggested that these spatially distinct regions helped to solidify and isolate class relations within the modern city, moving the middle class away from the urban core and into the privatized environment of the outer suburbs. 
      Due to the high concentration of first-generation immigrant families in the inner city of Chicago during the early 20th century, many prominent early studies in urban sociology focused upon the transmission of immigrants' native culture roles and norms into new and developing environments. Political participation and the rise in inter-community organizations were also frequently covered in this period, with many metropolitan areas adopting census techniques that allowed for information to be stored and easily accessed by participating institutions such as the University of Chicago. Park, Burgess and McKenzie, professors at the University of Chicago and three of the earliest proponents of urban sociology, developed the Subculture Theories, which helped to explain the often-positive role of local institutions on the formation of community acceptance and social ties. When race relations break down and expansion renders one's community members anonymous, as was proposed to be occurring in this period, the inner city becomes marked by high levels of social disorganization that prevent local ties from being established and maintained in local political arenas. 
      The rise of urban sociology coincided with the expansion of statistical inference in the behavioural sciences, which helped ease its transition and acceptance in educational institutions along with other burgeoning social sciences. Micro-sociology courses at the University of Chicago were among the earliest and most prominent courses on urban sociological research in the United States.  
      Evolution of the discipline 
      
      
       Further information: Social network
       
      The evolution and transition of sociological theory from the Chicago School began to emerge in the 1970s with the publication of Claude Fischer's (1975) "Toward a Theory of Subculture Urbanism" which incorporated Bourdieu's theories on social capital and symbolic capital within the invasion and succession framework of the Chicago School in explaining how cultural groups form, expand and solidify a neighbourhood. The theme of transition by subcultures and groups within the city was further expanded by Barry Wellman's (1979) "The Community Question: The Intimate Networks of East Yorkers" which determined the function and position of the individual, institution and community in the urban landscape in relation to their community. Wellman's categorization and incorporation of community focused theories as "Community Lost", "Community Saved", and "Community Liberated" which center around the structure of the urban community in shaping interactions between individuals and facilitating active participation in the local community are explained in detail below: 
      Community lost: The earliest of the three theories, this concept was developed in the late 19th century to account for the rapid development of industrial patterns that seemingly caused rifts between the individual and their local community. Urbanites were claimed to hold networks that were “impersonal, transitory and segmental”, maintaining ties in multiple social networks while at the same time lacking the strong ties that bound them to any specific group. This disorganization in turn caused members of urban communities to subsist almost solely on secondary affiliations with others, and rarely allowed them to rely on other members of the community for assistance with their needs. 
      Community saved: A critical response to the community lost theory that developed during the 1960s, the community saved argument suggests that multistranded ties often emerge in sparsely-knit communities as time goes on, and that urban communities often possess these strong ties, albeit in different forms. Especially among low-income communities, individuals have a tendency to adapt to their environment and pool resources in order to protect themselves collectively against structural changes. Over time urban communities have tendencies to become “urban villages”, where individuals possess strong ties with only a few individuals that connect them to an intricate web of other urbanities within the same local environment. 
      Community liberated: A cross-section of the community lost and community saved arguments, the community liberated theory suggests that the separation of workplace, residence and familial kinship groups has caused urbanites to maintain weak ties in multiple community groups that are further weakened by high rates of residential mobility. However, the concentrated number of environments present in the city for interaction increase the likelihood of individuals developing secondary ties, even if they simultaneously maintain distance from tightly knit communities. Primary ties that offer the individual assistance in everyday life form out of sparsely-knit and spatially dispersed interactions, with the individual's access to resources dependent on the quality of the ties they maintain within their community. 
      Along with the development of these theories, urban sociologists have increasingly begun to study the differences between the urban, rural and suburban environment within the last half-century. Consistent with the community liberated argument, researchers have in large part found that urban residents tend to maintain more spatially-dispersed networks of ties than rural or suburban residents. Among lower-income urban residents, the lack of mobility and communal space within the city often disrupts the formation of social ties and lends itself to creating an unintegrated and distant community space. While the high density of networks within the city weakens relations between individuals, it increases the likelihood that at least one individual within a network can provide the primary support found among smaller and more tightly knit networks. Since the 1970s, research into social networks has focused primarily on the types of ties developed within residential environments. Bonding ties, common of tightly knit neighborhoods, consist of connections that provide an individual with primary support, such as access to income or upward mobility among a neighborhood organization. Bridging ties, in contrast, are the ties that weakly connect strong networks of individuals together. A group of communities concerned about the placement of a nearby highway may only be connected through a few individuals that represent their views at a community board meeting, for instance. 
      However, as theory surrounding social networks has developed, sociologists such as Alejandro Portes and the  Wisconsin model of sociological research began placing increased leverage on the importance of these weak ties. While strong ties are necessary for providing residents with primary services and a sense of community, weak ties bring together elements of different cultural and economic landscapes in solving problems affecting a great number of individuals. As theorist Eric Oliver notes, neighborhoods with vast social networks are also those that most commonly rely on heterogeneous support in problem solving, and are also the most politically active. 
      As the suburban landscape developed during the 20th century and the outer city became a refuge for the wealthy and, later, the burgeoning middle class, sociologists and urban geographers such as Harvey Molotch, David Harvey and Neil Smith began to study the structure and revitalization of the most impoverished areas of the inner city. In their research, impoverished neighborhoods, which often rely on tightly knit local ties for economic and social support, were found to be targeted by developers for gentrification which displaced residents living within these communities. Political experimentation in providing these residents with semi-permanent housing and structural support – ranging from Section 8 housing to Community Development Block Grant programs- have in many cases eased the transition of low-income residents into stable housing and employment. Yet research covering the social impact of forced movement among these residents has noted the difficulties individuals often have with maintaining a level of economic comfort, which is spurred by rising land values and inter-urban competition between cities in as a means to attract capital investment.  The interaction between inner-city dwellers and middle class passersby in such settings has also been a topic of study for urban sociologists. 
      In a September, 2015 issue of "City &amp; Community(C&amp;C)," the article discusses future plans and discusses research needed for the coming future. The article proposes certain steps in order to react to urban trends, create a safer environment, and prepare for future urbanization. The steps include: publishing more C&amp;C articles, more research towards segregation in metropolitan areas, focus on trends and patterns in segregation and poverty, decrease micro-level segregation, and research towards international urbanization changes. However, in a June, 2018 issue of C&amp;C, Mike Owen Benediktsson argues that spatial inequality, the idea of a lack of resources through a specific space, would be problematic for the future of urban sociology. Problems in neighborhoods arise from political forms and issues. He argues that attention should be more on the relationship between spaces rather than expansion of more urban cities.  
      Criticism 
      Many theories in urban sociology have been criticized, most prominently directed toward the ethnocentric approaches taken by many early theorists that lay groundwork for urban studies throughout the 20th century. Early theories that sought to frame the city as an adaptable “superorganism” often disregarded the intricate roles of social ties within local communities, suggesting that the urban environment itself rather than the individuals living within it controlled the spread and shape of the city. For impoverished inner-city residents, the role of highway planning policies and other government-spurred initiatives instituted by the planner Robert Moses and others have been criticized as unsightly and unresponsive to residential needs. The slow development of empirically-based urban research reflects the failure of local urban governments to adapt and ease the transition of local residents to the short-lived industrialization of the city. 
      Some modern social theorists have also been critical toward the apparent shortsightedness that urban sociologists have shown toward the role of culture in the inner city. William Julius Wilson has criticized theory developed throughout the middle of the twentieth century as relying primarily on structural roles of institutions, and not how culture itself affects common aspects of inner-city life such as poverty. The distance shown toward this topic, he argues, presents an incomplete picture of inner-city life. The urban sociological theory is viewed as one important aspect of sociology. 
      The concept of urban sociology as a whole has often been challenged and criticized by sociologists through time. Several different aspects from race, land, resources, etc. have broadened the idea. Manuel Castells questioned if urban sociology even exists and devoted 40 years worth of research in order to redefine and reorganize the concept. With the growing population and majority of Americans living in suburbs, Castells believes that most researchers focus their work of urban sociology around cities, neglecting the other major communities of suburbs, towns, and rural areas. He also believes that urban sociologists have over complicated the term of urban sociology and should possibly create a more clear and organized explanation to their studies, arguing that a "Sociology of Settlements," would cover most issues around the term. 
      Many urban sociologists focus behind the concept behind human overpopulation. Perry Burnett, who studied at the University of Southern Indiana, researched behind the idea of Urban sprawl and city optimization for human population. Some sociologists would criticize that urbanization could range issues from racial discrimination to high income taxes. Burnett would counter the idea that urban overpopulation could actually benefit the efficiency of cities. His work would equate optimal resources, incomes, households, etc. to display that larger and more city sizes would be more beneficial through more equal income and land distribution.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Bibliography of sociology 
        Community studies 
        Ekistics 
        Index of urban studies articles 
        Garden city movement 
        List of urban sociology topics 
        Rural sociology 
        Social geography 
        Social theory 
        Sociology of architecture 
        Sociology of space 
        Urban anthropology 
        Urban culture 
        Urban economics 
        Urban history 
        Urban planning 
        Urban tribe 
        Urban vitality
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Dictionary reference  
         ^ Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p.&nbsp;723. ISBN&nbsp;978-0415862875.  
         ^ Martin, D.G., "Chicago School" in D. Gregory, R. Johnston, G. Pratt, M. Watts and S. Whatmore, eds., The Dictionary of Human Geography, London: Blackwell, 2009.  
         ^ Flanagan, W., Contemporary Urban Sociology Cambridge: University of Cambridge, 1993.  
         ^ Wirth, L., Urbanism as a Way of Life The American Journal of Sociology: Volume 44, Number 1, 1938.  
         ^ Trepl, L., City and Ecology Capitalism Nature Socialism: Volume 7, Number 2, 1996.  
         ^ Burgess, E., "The growth of the city: an introduction to a research project," in Park, R.E. (ed) The City, Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, pp. 47–62, 1925.  
         ^ Sassen, S., New frontiers facing urban sociology at the millennium The British Journal of Sociology: Volume 51, Number 1, 2000.  
         ^ Park, R., The City: Suggestions for Investigation of Human Behavior in the Urban Environment Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1984.  
         ^ Wellman, B., The Community Question: The Intimate Networks of East Yorkers American Journal of Sociology: Volume 84, Number 4, 1979.  
         ^ Granovetter, M., "The Strength of Weak Ties", American Journal of Sociology,78(6), 1360–1380, 1973.  
         ^ Portes, A., and Sensenbrenner, J.,"Embeddedness and immigration: notes on the social determinants of economic action," American Journal of Sociology, 98, pp. 1320–1350, 1993.  
         ^ Oliver, E., Democracy in Suburbia Connecticut: Princeton University Press, 2001.  
         ^ Smith, N., The New Urban Frontier: Gentrification and the Revanchist City, London: Routledge, 1996.  
         ^ Harvey, D., ""From Managerialism to Entrepreneurialism: The Transformation in Urban Governance in Late Capitalism". Geografiska Annaler: Series B, Human Geography, 71, pp. 3–17, 1989.  
         ^ Molotch, H., "The City as a Growth Machine: Toward a Political Economy of Place". American Journal of Sociology, 82(2), pp. 309–332, 1976.  
         ^ 
           Duneier, Mitchell (2001). Sidewalk (1st paperback&nbsp;ed.). New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. ISBN&nbsp;978-0374527259.  
         ^ 
           Dromi, Shai M. (December 2012). "Penny for your Thoughts: Beggars and the Exercise of Morality in Daily Life". Sociological Forum. 27 (4): 847–871. doi:10.1111/j.1573-7861.2012.01359.x.  
         ^ 
           Hyra, Derek (September 2015). "Advancing the Future Urban Discourse: ADVANCING THE FUTURE URBAN DISCOURSE". City &amp; Community. 14 (3): 254–257. doi:10.1111/cico.12129. S2CID&nbsp;145369614.  
         ^ 
           Benediktsson, Mike Owen (June 2018). "Where Inequality Takes Place: A Programmatic Argument for Urban Sociology: WHERE INEQUALITY TAKES PLACE". City &amp; Community. 17 (2): 394–417. doi:10.1111/cico.12302. S2CID&nbsp;150330337.  
         ^ 
           Caro, Robert (1974). The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York. New York: Knopf. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-394-48076-3. OCLC&nbsp;834874.  
         ^ 
           Gans, Herbert J. (September 2009). "Some Problems of and Futures for Urban Sociology: Toward a Sociology of Settlements". City &amp; Community. 8 (3): 211–219. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6040.2009.01286.x.  
         ^ 
           Burnett, Perry (November 2016). "OVERPOPULATION, OPTIMAL CITY SIZE AND THE EFFICIENCY OF URBAN SPRAWL: Overpopulation and optimal city size". Review of Urban &amp; Regional Development Studies. 28 (3): 143–161. doi:10.1111/rurd.12051.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Berger, Alan S., The City: Urban Communities and Their Problems, Dubuque, Iowa&nbsp;: William C. Brown, 1978. 
       Bourdieu, P., Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste, (trans) Nice, R., Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984. 
       Durkheim, E., The Division of Labor in Society, (trans) Coser, L.A., New York: Free Press, 1997. 
       Fischer, C.S., "Toward a Subculture Theory of Urbanism". American Journal of Sociology, 80, pp.&nbsp;1319–1341, 1975. 
       Harvey, D., "From Managerialism to Entrepreneurialism: The Transformation in Urban Governance in Late Capitalism". Geografiska Annaler: Series B, Human Geography, 71, pp.&nbsp;3–17, 1989. 
       Hutchison, R., Gottdiener M., and Ryan, M.T.: The New Urban Sociology. Westview Press, Google E-Book, 2014. 
       Marx, K., A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy, (trans) Stone, N.I., Chicago: Charles H. Kerr, 1911. 
       Marx, K., Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, Vol. 1, (trans) Fowkes, B., New York: Penguin, 1976. 
       Molotch, H., "The City as a Growth Machine: Toward a Political Economy of Place". American Journal of Sociology, 82(2), pp.&nbsp;309–332, 1976. 
       Molotch, H. and Logan, J., Urban Fortunes: The Political Economy of Place, Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1987. 
       Portes, A., and Sensenbrenner, J., "Embeddedness and immigration: notes on the social determinants of economic action", American Journal of Sociology, 98, pp.&nbsp;1320–1350, 1993. 
       Simmel, G., The Sociology of Georg Simmel, (trans) Wolff, K.H., Glencoe, IL: The Free Press, 1950. 
       Smith, N., The New Urban Frontier: Gentrification and The Revanchist City, London: Routledge, 1996. 
       Tonnies, F., Community and Society, (trans) Loomis, C.P, East Lansing: Michigan State Press, 1957. 
       Weber, M., The City, (trans) Martindale, D., and Neuwirth, G., New York: The Free Press, 1958 
       Weber, M., The Protestant Ethic and the "Spirit" of Capitalism and Other Writings, (trans) Baehr, P. and Wells, G.C., New York: Penguin, 2002. 
       Wellman, B., "The Community Question: The Intimate Networks of East Yorkers". American Journal of Sociology, 84(5), pp.&nbsp;1201–31, 1979. 
       Wilson, W.J., When Work Disappears: The World of the New Urban Poor, New York: Knopf, 1996. 
       Wirth, L., "Urbanism as a Way of Life". American Journal of Sociology, 44(1), pp.&nbsp;1–24, 1938.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Sociology
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Timeline 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          General aspects
          
            
            
             Public sociology 
             Social research 
             Social theory 
             Sociological theory 
             Sociological practice
             
           
         
         
          Related fieldsand subfields
          
            
            
             Anthropology 
             Comparative sociology 
             Criminology 
             Cultural anthropology 
             Demography 
             Historical sociology 
             Political sociology 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociolinguistics 
             Social anthropology
             
           
           
            
             
              Sociology of
              
                
                
                 consciousness 
                 culture 
                 deviance 
                 economics 
                 education 
                 environment 
                 gender 
                 knowledge 
                 law 
                 military 
                 religion 
                 science 
                 small groups 
                 stratification 
                 work
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Categories 
              
               lists 
               Journals
               
              Commons 
              WikiProject 
             &nbsp;Society portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Urban_sociology&amp;oldid=1069649697"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Urban sociology
       Urban planning
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Қазақша
       Magyar
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 February 2022, at 10:35&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
