
 
  
   
  Area studies - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Area studies 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Interdisciplinary fields of research
       
      
      
       "Regional studies" redirects here. Not to be confused with Regional planning.
       
      Area studies (also regional studies) are interdisciplinary fields of research and scholarship pertaining to particular geographical, national/federal, or cultural regions. The term exists primarily as a general description for what are, in the practice of scholarship, many heterogeneous fields of research, encompassing both the social sciences and the humanities. Typical area study programs involve international relations, strategic studies, history, political science, political economy, cultural studies, languages, geography, literature, and other related disciplines. In contrast to cultural studies, area studies often include diaspora and emigration from the area.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Controversy within the field 
        3 Fields 
        4 Institutions 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Interdisciplinary area studies became increasingly common in the United States of America and in Western scholarship after World War II. Before that war American universities had just a few faculty who taught or conducted research on the non-Western world. Foreign-area studies were virtually nonexistent. After the war, liberals and conservatives alike were concerned about the US ability to respond effectively to perceived external threats from the Soviet Union and China in the context of the emerging Cold War, as well as to the fall-out from the decolonization of Africa and Asia.  
       
      In this context, the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Carnegie Corporation of New York convened a series of meetings producing a broad consensus that to address this knowledge deficit, the US must invest in international studies. Therefore, the foundations of the field are strongly rooted in America. Participants argued that a large brain trust of internationally oriented political scientists and economists was an urgent national priority. There was a central tension, however, between those who felt strongly that, instead of applying Western models, social scientists should develop culturally and historically contextualized knowledge of various parts of the world by working closely with humanists, and those who thought social scientists should seek to develop overarching macrohistorial theories that could draw connections between patterns of change and development across different geographies. The former became area-studies advocates, the latter proponents of modernization theory. 
      The Ford Foundation would eventually become the dominant player in shaping the area-studies program in the United States. In 1950 the foundation established the prestigious Foreign Area Fellowship Program (FAFP), the first large-scale national competition in support of area-studies training in the United States. From 1953 to 1966 it contributed $270 million to 34 universities for area and language studies. Also during this period, it poured millions of dollars into the committees run jointly by the Social Science Research Council and the American Council of Learned Societies for field-development workshops, conferences, and publication programs. Eventually, the SSRC-ACLS joint committees would take over the administration of FAFP. 
      Other large and important programs followed Ford's. Most notably, the National Defense Education Act of 1957, renamed the Higher Education Act in 1965, allocated funding for some 125 university-based area-studies units known as National Resource Center programs at U.S. universities, as well as for Foreign Language and Area Studies scholarships for undergraduate students and fellowships for graduate students. 
      Meanwhile, area studies were also developed in the Soviet Union.  
      Controversy within the field 
      Since their inception, area studies have been subject to criticism—including by area specialists themselves. Many of them alleged that because area studies were connected to the Cold War agendas of the CIA, the FBI, and other intelligence and military agencies, participating in such programs was tantamount to serving as an agent of the state. Some argue that there is the notion that US concerns and research priorities will define the intellectual terrain of area studies. Others insisted, however, that once they were established on university campuses, area studies began to encompass a much broader and deeper intellectual agenda than the one foreseen by government agencies, thus not American centric. 
      Arguably, one of the greatest threats to the area studies project was the rise of rational choice theory in political science and economics. To mock one of the most outspoken rational choice theory critics, Japan scholar Chalmers Johnson asked: Why do you need to know Japanese or anything about Japan's history and culture if the methods of rational choice will explain why Japanese politicians and bureaucrats do the things they do? 
      Following the demise of the Soviet Union, philanthropic foundations and scientific bureaucracies moved to attenuate their support for area studies, emphasizing instead interregional themes like "development and democracy". When the Social Science Research Council and the American Council of Learned Societies, which had long served as the national nexus for raising and administering funds for area studies, underwent their first major restructuring in thirty years, closing down their area committees, scholars interpreted this as a massive signal about the changing research environment.  
      Fields 
      Fields are defined differently from university to university, and from department to department, but common area-studies fields include:  
      
       
       
        African studies 
         
          North African studies 
           
            Berberology (Berber studies) 
            Egyptology (also under Classical studies)
           
          
        North and Latin American studies (Interamerican Studies) 
         
          American studies (in the United States this has traditionally referred primarily to North America and especially the U.S.) 
           
            American Studies in Britain 
            Appalachian studies 
            Southern studies
            
          Canadian studies 
           
            Québec studies (see also Latin American studies)
            
          Caribbean studies (see also Latin American studies) 
          Latin American studies (see also Iberian studies, Romance studies, Caribbean studies and Québec studies)
          
        Asian studies 
         
          Central Asian studies (see also Turkology) 
           
            Mongolian studies (also under East Asian studies) 
            Tibetology (Tibetan studies, also under South Asian or East Asian studies)
            
          Middle Eastern studies (Near Eastern studies) 
           
            Assyriology (also under Classical studies) 
            Caucasology (Caucasiology, also under European Studies) 
             
              Chechen studies 
              Dagestan studies 
              Ossetian studies 
              Abkhaz studies 
              Armenology (Armenian studies) 
              Georgian studies (Kartvelian studies or Kartvelology)
              
            Iranian studies (Iranology or Iranistics) 
             
              Persian studies 
              Kurdology (Kurdish studies)
              
            Islamic studies 
            Judaic studies (Jewish studies) 
            Turkology (Turcology) 
             
              Ottoman studies 
              Seljuq studies (Seljuk studies) 
              Turkish studies
             
            
          East Asian studies 
           
            Sinology (Chinese studies) 
             
              Hakka studies 
              Teochew studies 
              Hong Kong studies 
              Macau studies 
              Taiwan studies
              
            Japanology (Japanese studies) 
             
              Ainu studies 
              Ryukyuan studies
              
            Koreanology (Korean studies) 
            Manchurology 
            Mongolian studies (also under Central Asian studies) 
            Tibetology (Tibetan studies, also under Central Asian or South Asian studies) 
            Uyghur studies 
            Yi studies 
            Zhuang studies (Zhuangology) 
            Miao studies
            
          South Asian studies 
           
            Indology (Indian studies) 
             
              Dravidology (Dravidian studies) 
              Bengali Studies
              
            Pakistanology (Pakistan studies or Pakistani studies) 
             
              Sindhology
              
            Tibetology (Tibetan studies, also under Central Asian or East Asian studies)
            
          Southeast Asian studies 
           
            Burma studies 
            Indonesian studies 
             
              Javanology
              
            Khmer studies 
            Lao studies 
            Philippine studies (Filipinology or Philippineology) 
            Thai studies 
            Vietnamese studies
           
          
        European studies 
         
          Baltic studies (Baltic Sea Region studies) 
          Byzantine studies (Byzantinology or Byzantology) 
          Caucasology (Caucasiology, also under Near Eastern studies) 
           
            Chechen studies 
            Dagestan studies 
            Ossetian studies 
            Abkhaz studies 
            Armenology (Armenian studies) 
            Georgian studies (Kartvelian studies or Kartvelology)
            
          Celtic studies (Celtology) 
           
            Breton studies 
            Cornish studies (also under United Kingdom studies) 
            Irish studies 
            Manx studies (also under United Kingdom studies) 
            Scottish studies (also under United Kingdom studies) 
            Welsh studies (also under United Kingdom studies)
            
          Classical studies (Classics) 
           
            Assyriology (also under Middle Eastern studies) 
            Egyptology (also under African studies)
            
          Dutch studies (nl:Neerlandistiek) 
          Finnish studies 
          German studies (Germanistics or Germanics) 
           
            Austrian studies
            
          Romance studies (see also Latin American studies) 
           
            French studies 
            Iberian studies (see also Latin American studies) 
             
              Basque studies (part of Iberian studies, but not Romance studies) 
              Catalan studies 
              Hispanism (Hispanic Studies or Spanish Studies) 
              Portuguese studies
              
            Italian studies 
            Occitan studies
            
          Scandinavian studies 
          Slavic studies (Slavonic studies or Slavistics) 
           
            Russian studies 
            Ukrainian studies 
            Belarusian studies 
            Czech studies (Bohemistics) 
            Polish studies (Polonistics) 
            Bosnian studies 
            Bulgarian studies 
            Croatian studies 
            Serbian studies (Serbistics)
            
          United Kingdom studies 
           
            Anglo-Saxon studies 
            Cornish studies (also under Celtic studies) 
            Manx studies (also under Celtic studies) 
            Scottish studies (also under Celtic studies) 
            Welsh studies (also under Celtic studies)
           
          
        Pacific studies 
         
          Australian studies 
          New Zealand studies
         
        
       
      Due to an increasing interest in studying translocal, transregional, transnational and transcontinental phenomena, a Potsdam-based research network has recently coined the term "TransArea Studies" (POINTS – Potsdam International Network for TransArea Studies). 
      Other interdisciplinary research fields such as women's studies, gender studies, disability studies, LGBT studies and ethnic studies (including African American studies, Asian American studies, Latino studies, Chicano studies and Native American studies) are not part of area studies but are sometimes included in discussion along with it. 
      Area studies is sometimes known as regional studies. The Regional Studies Association is an international association focusing on these interdisciplinary fields.  
      Institutions 
      Some entire institutions of higher education (tertiary education) are devoted solely to area studies such as School of Oriental and African Studies, part of the University of London, or the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies in Japan. At the University of Oxford, the School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies (SIAS)School of Interdiscplinary Area Studies, Oxford and St Antony's College specialise in area studies, and hosts a number of post-graduate teaching programmes and research centres covering various regions of the world. Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, is the only institution with immense contribution towards popularising area studies in India. An institution which exclusively deals with Area Studies is the GIGA (German Institute for Global and Area Studies) in Germany. Additionally, Lund University in Sweden offers the largest Asian Studies masters program in Northern Europe and is dedicated to promoting studies related to South Asia through its SASNet.  
      See also 
      
       Cultural studies 
       Ethnic studies 
       IATIS 
       Interdisciplinarity 
       International studies 
       Library of Congress Country Studies 
       Regional geography
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Máster Universitario Internacional de Estudios Contemporáneos de América Latina".  
         ^ 
           "Guia Informativo - Universidade Aberta".  
         ^ Ellen Condliffe Lagemann, The Politics of Knowledge: The Carnegie Corporation, Philanthropy, and Public Policy (University of Chicago Press, 1992), p. 178.  
         ^ David L. Szanton, "The Origin, Nature and Challenges of Area Studies in the United States," in The Politics of Knowledge: Area Studies and the Disciplines, ed. David L. Szanton (University of California Press, 2004), pp. 10–11.  
         ^  Note for example: 
           Rupprecht, Tobias (2015). "5: Desk revolutionaries: Soviet Latin Americanists and internationalism in the late Soviet Union". Soviet Internationalism after Stalin. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;273. ISBN&nbsp;9781107102880. Retrieved 2017-08-22. Academics from Moscow State University and IMEMO  often turned to broader area studies at the ILA  (founded in 1961 as part of the Soviet Academy of Sciences)] and taught at MGIMO , Moscow State University or Lumumba University . Others moved from area studies into international journalism.  All state and Party organs that dealt with cultural diplomacy drew on the staff of area studies and their network of contacts.  
         ^ a b 
           Cumings, Bruce (1997). "Boundary Displacement: Area Studies and International Studies during and after the Cold War". Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars. 29: 6–26. doi:10.1080/14672715.1997.10409695.  
         ^ See Patrick O'Meara, "Changing perspectives on international education", (Indiana University Press 2010), pp. 81.  
         ^ Moseley, W.G. 2009. “Area Studies in a Global Context.” Chronicle of Higher Education. Nov 29. http://chronicle.com/article/Area-Studies-in-a-Global-Co/49284/  
         ^ See "Rational Choice Theory," by John Scott, in Understanding Contemporary Society: Theories of The Present, edited by G. Browning, A. Halcli, and F. Webster (Sage Publications, 2000). 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2009-02-27. Retrieved 2008-07-30.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link). Retrieved 2009-04-23.  
         ^ See Chalmers Johnson and E. B. Keehn, "A Disaster in the Making: Rational Choice and Asian Studies," The National Interest 36 (summer 1994), pp. 14–22.  
         ^ 
           "Study Asia in Lund!". lu.se. 27 June 2017. Retrieved 6 April 2018.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Kuijper, Hans (2008). "Area Studies versus Disciplines: Towards an Interdisciplinary, Systemic Country Approach". The International Journal of Interdisciplinary Social Sciences, Vol. 3, Issue 7, pp.&nbsp;205–216. 
       
        Miyoshi, Masao; Harootunian, Harry D. (2002). Learning Places: The Afterlives of Area Studies. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0822328267. 
       Schäfer, Wolf (2010). "Reconfiguring Area Studies for the Global Age." Globality Studies Journal, no. 22. 31 December 2010.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Area studies.
         
       
       
      
        The dictionary definition of area studies at Wiktionary 
       Center for Interdisciplinary East and South - East Area Studies, Lund 
       School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies, Oxford 
       Observatory of International Research (OOIR): Latest Papers and Trends in Area Studies
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Area_studies&amp;oldid=1033681711"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Area studies
       Ethnography
       Cultural anthropology
       Humanities
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Башҡортса
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       Bahasa Indonesia
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Türkçe
       Winaray
       吴语
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 15 July 2021, at 05:37&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
