
 
  
   
  Development studies - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Development studies 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Development studies is an interdisciplinary branch of social science. Development studies is offered as a specialized master's degree in a number of reputed universities around the world, such as the University of Cambridge, the London School of Economics and Political Science, King’s College London, the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex, Oxford University, Harvard University, Balsillie School of International Affairs, Graduate Institute Geneva, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, SOAS London, Tata Institute of Social Sciences and University of Warwick, and less commonly, as an undergraduate degree, such as at the University of Sussex, University of Guelph, University of Toronto and McGill University. It has grown in popularity as a subject of study since the early 1990s, and has been most widely taught and researched in developing countries and countries with a colonial history, such as the UK, where the discipline originated. Students of development studies often choose careers in international organisations such as the United Nations, World Bank, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), media and journalism houses, private sector development consultancy firms, corporate social responsibility (CSR) bodies and research centers.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Professional bodies 
        2 Disciplines of development studies 
        3 History 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Professional bodies 
      Throughout the world, a number of professional bodies for development studies have been founded:  
      
       Europe: European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes (EADI) 
       Latin America: Consejo Latinoamericano de Ciencias Sociales (CLACSO) 
       Asia: Asian Political and International Studies Association (APISA) 
       Africa: Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa (CODESRIA) and Organization for Social Science Research in Eastern and Southern Africa (OSSREA) 
       Arabic world: Arab Institutes and Centers for Economic and Social Development Research (AICARDES)
       
      The common umbrella organisation of these association is the Inter-regional Coordinating Committee of Development Associations (ICCDA). In the UK and Ireland, the Development Studies Association is a major source of information for research on and studying in development studies. Its mission is to connect and promote those working on development research.  
      Disciplines of development studies 
      Development issues include:  
      
       
       
        Area studies 
        Anthropology 
        Community development 
        Demography 
        Development communication 
        Development theory 
        Diaspora studies 
        Ecology 
        Economic development 
        Economic History 
        Engineering 
        Environmental studies 
        Geography 
        Gender studies 
        Governance 
        Human rights 
        Queer studies 
        Human security 
        Indigenous rights 
        Industrial relations 
        Industrialization 
        International business 
        International development 
        International relations 
        Journalism 
        Media Studies 
        Migration studies 
        Partnership 
        Peace and conflict studies 
        Pedagogy 
        Political philosophy 
        Population studies 
        Postcolonialism 
        Psychology 
        Public administration 
        Public health 
        Rural development 
        Sociology 
        Social policy 
        Social development 
        Social work 
        Sustainable development 
        Urban studies 
        Women's studies
        
       
      History 
      The emergence of development studies as an academic discipline in the second half of the twentieth century is in large part due to increasing concern about economic prospects for the third world after decolonisation. In the immediate post-war period, development economics, a branch of economics, arose out of previous studies in colonial economics. By the 1960s, an increasing number of development economists felt that economics alone could not fully address issues such as political effectiveness and educational provision. Development studies arose as a result of this, initially aiming to integrate ideas of politics and economics. Since then, it has become an increasingly inter- and multi-disciplinary subject, encompassing a variety of social scientific fields. In recent years the use of political economy analysis- the application of the analytical techniques of economics- to try and assess and explain political and social factors that either enhance or limit development has become increasingly widespread as a way of explaining the success or failure of reform processes. The era of modern development is commonly deemed to have commenced with the inauguration speech of Harry S. Truman in 1949. In Point Four of his speech, with reference to Latin America and other poor nations, he said:  
      
       More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery. Their food is inadequate. They are victims of disease. Their economic life is primitive and stagnant. Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous areas. For the first time in history, humanity possesses the knowledge and the skill to relieve the suffering of these people.
       
      But development studies has since also taken an interest in lessons of past development experiences of Western countries. More recently, the emergence of human security – a new, people-oriented approach to understanding and addressing global security threats – has led to a growing recognition of a relationship between security and development. Human security argues that inequalities and insecurity in one state or region have consequences for global security and that it is thus in the interest of all states to address underlying development issues. This relationship with studies of human security is but one example of the interdisciplinary nature of development studies.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Global South Development Magazine 
        City development index 
        Colonization 
        Community development 
        Development (disambiguation) 
        Development Cooperation Issues  
        Development Cooperation Stories  
        Development Cooperation Testimonials  
        Economic development 
        Human rights 
        Human security 
        Industrialization 
        International development 
        Postdevelopment theory 
        Social development 
        Social work 
        Sustainable development 
        World-systems theory
        
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ International Development Studies BA  
        ^ Undergraduate Programs at McGill University  
        ^ Kothari, U. (ed), A Radical History of Development Studies: Individuals, Institutions and Ideologies – but see The Journal of Peasant Studies 34/1 (2007) for an alternative view.  
        ^ About ICCDA  
        ^ Kothari, U. (ed), A Radical History of Development Studies: Individuals, Institutions and Ideologies  
        ^ Abbott, Lewis F. (2003) Theories of Industrial Modernization and Enterprise Development: A Review. ISR/Google Books, Second revised edition ISBN&nbsp;978-0-906321-26-3  
        ^ Rist, G., The History of Development: From Western Origins to Global Faith  
        ^ 
          "Address by Harry S. Truman, 1949". Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Breuer, Martin. "Development" (2015). University Bielefeld: Center for InterAmerican Studies. 
       Pradella, Lucia and Marois, Thomas, eds. (2015) Polarizing Development: Alternatives to Neoliberalism and the Crisis. Pluto Press. 
       Sachs, Wolfgang, ed. (1992) The Development Dictionary: A Guide to Knowledge as Power. Zed Books.
       
      External links 
      
       Global South Development Magazine 
       Development Studies Internet Resources 
       Studying Development – International Development Studies course directory
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Development_studies&amp;oldid=1064543334"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Development studies
       Development economics
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       Français
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       IsiXhosa
       Italiano
       日本語
       ភាសាខ្មែរ
       Polski
       Suomi
       தமிழ்
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 January 2022, at 22:56&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
