
 
  
   
  Desktop search - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Desktop search 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (October 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This is written like a manual or guidebook. Please help rewrite this  from a descriptive, neutral point of view, and remove advice or instruction. (October 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         OSL Desktop Search engines software Aduna AutoFocus 5
        
       
       
      Desktop search tools search within a user's own computer files as opposed to searching the Internet. These tools are designed to find information on the user's PC, including web browser history, e-mail archives, text documents, sound files, images, and video. A variety of desktop search programs are now available; see this list for examples. Most desktop search programs are standalone applications. Desktop search products are software alternatives to the search software included in the operating system, helping users sift through desktop files, emails, attachments, and more. 
      Desktop search emerged as a concern for large firms for two main reasons: untapped productivity and security. According to analyst firm Gartner, up to 80% of some companies' data is locked up inside unstructured data — the information stored on a user's PC, the directories (folders) and files they've created on a network, documents stored in repositories such as corporate intranets and a multitude of other locations. Moreover, many companies have structured or unstructured information stored in older file formats to which they don't have ready access. 
      The sector attracted considerable attention in the late 2004 to early 2005 period from the struggle between Microsoft and Google. According to market analysts, both companies were attempting to leverage their monopolies (of web browsers and search engines, respectively) to strengthen their dominance. Due to Google's complaint that users of Windows Vista cannot choose any competitor's desktop search program over the built-in one, an agreement was reached between US Justice Department and Microsoft that Windows Vista Service Pack 1 would enable users to choose between the built-in and other desktop search programs, and select which one is to be the default. As of September 2011, Google ended life for Google Desktop.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Technologies 
        2 Platforms &amp; their histories 
          
          2.1 Windows 
          2.2 Mac OS 
          2.3 Linux 
            
            2.3.1 Ubuntu 
            2.3.2 openSUSE 
             
           
        3 See also 
        4 References 
        
       
      Technologies 
      Most desktop search engines build and maintain an index database to improve performance when searching large amounts of data. Indexing usually takes place when the computer is idle and most search applications can be set to suspend indexing if a portable computer is running on batteries, in order to save power. There are notable exceptions, however: Voidtools' Everything Search Engine, which performs searches over only file names, not contents, is able to build its index from scratch in just a few seconds. Another exception is Vegnos Desktop Search Engine, which performs searches over filenames and files' contents without building any indices. An index may also not be up-to-date, when a query is performed. In this case, results returned will not be accurate (that is, a hit may be shown when it is no longer there, and a file may not be shown, when in fact it is a hit). Some products have sought to remedy this disadvantage by building a real-time indexing function into the software. There are disadvantages to not indexing. Namely, the time to complete a query can be significant, and the issued query can also be resource-intensive. 
      Desktop search tools typically collect three types of information about files:  
      
       file and folder names 
       metadata, such as titles, authors, comments in file types such as MP3, PDF and JPEG 
       file content, for the types of documents supported by the tool
       
      Long-term goals for desktop search include the ability to search the contents of image files, sound files and video by context.  
      Platforms &amp; their histories 
      Windows 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Lookeen desktop search on Windows
        
       
       
      Indexing Service a "a base service that extracts content from files and constructs an indexed catalog to facilitate efficient and rapid searching" was originally released in August 1996, it was built in order to speed up manually searching for files on Personal Desktops and Corporate Computer Network. Indexing service helped by using Microsoft web servers to index files on the desired hard drives. Indexing was done by file format. By using terms that users provided, a search was conducted that matched terms to the data within the file formats. The largest issue that Indexing service faced was the fact that every time a file was added, it had to be indexed. This coupled with the fact that the indexing cached the entire index in RAM, made the hardware a huge limitation. This made indexing large amounts of files require extremely powerful hardware and very long wait times. 
      In 2003, Windows Desktop Search (WDS) replaced Microsoft Indexing Service. Instead of only matching terms to the details of the file format and file names, WDS brings in content indexing to all Microsoft files and text-based formats such as e-mail and text files. This means, that WDS looked into the files and indexed the content. Thus, when a user searched a term, WDS no longer matched just information such as file format types and file names, but terms, and values stored within those files. WDS also brought "Instant searching" meaning the user could type a character and the query would instantly start searching and updating the query as the user typed in more characters. Windows Search apparently used up a lot of processing power, as Windows Desktop Search would only run if it was directly queried or while the PC was idle. Even only running while directly queried or while the computer was idled, indexing the entire hard drive still took hours. The index would be around 10% of the size of all the files that it indexed, e.g. if the indexed files amounted to around 100GB, the index size would be 10GB. 
      With the release of Windows Vista came Windows Search 3.1. Unlike its predecessors WDS and Windows Search 3.0, 3.1 could search through both indexed and non indexed locations seamlessly. Also, the RAM and CPU requirements were greatly reduced, cutting back indexing times immensely. Windows Search 4.0 is currently running on all PCs with Windows 7 and up.  
      Mac OS 
      In 1994 the AppleSearch search engine was introduced, allowing users to fully search all documents within their Macintosh computer, including file format types, meta-data on those files, and content within the files. AppleSearch was a client/server application, and as such required a server separate from the main device in order to function. The biggest issue with AppleSearch were its large resource requirements: "AppleSearch requires at least a 68040 processor and 5MB of RAM." At the time, a Macintosh computer with these specifications was priced at approximately $1400; equivalent to $2050 in 2015. On top of this, the software itself cost an additional $1400 for a single license. 
      In 1997, Sherlock was released alongside Mac OS 8.5. Sherlock (named after the famous fictional detective Sherlock Holmes) was integrated into Mac OS's file browser&nbsp;– Finder. Sherlock extended the desktop search function to the World Wide Web, allowing users to search both locally and externally. Adding additional functions—such as internet access—to Sherlock was relatively simple, as this was done through plugins written as plain text files. Sherlock was included in every release of Mac OS from Mac OS 8, before being deprecated and replaced by Spotlight and Dashboard in Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger. It was officially removed in Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard 
      Spotlight was released in 2005 as part of Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger. It is a Selection-based search tool, which means the user invokes a query using only the mouse. Spotlight allows the user to search the Internet for more information about any keyword or phrase contained within a document or webpage, and uses a built-in calculator and Oxford American Dictionary to offer quick access to small calculations and word definitions. While Spotlight initially has a long startup time, this decreases as the hard disk is indexed. As files are added by the user, the index is constantly updated in the background using minimal CPU &amp; RAM resources.  
      Linux 
      There are a wide range of desktop search options for Linux users, depending upon the skill level of the user, their preference to use desktop tools which tightly integrate into their desktop environment, command-shell functionality (often with advanced scripting options), or browser-based users interfaces to locally running software. In addition, many users create their own indexing from a variety of indexing packages (e.g. one which does extraction and indexing of PDF/DOC/DOCX/ODT documents well, another search engine which works w/ vcard, LDAP, and other directory/contact databases, as well as the conventional find and locate commands.  
      Ubuntu 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Unity Dash search tool in Ubuntu 16.04
        
       
       
      Ubuntu Linux didn't have desktop search until release Feisty Fawn 7.04. Using Tracker desktop search, the desktop search feature was very similar to Mac OS's AppleSearch and Sherlock. It not only featured the basic features of file format sorting and meta-data matching, but support for searching through emails and instant messages was added. In 2014 Recoll was added to Linux distributions, working with other search programs such as Tracker and Beagle to provide efficient full text search. This greatly increased the types of queries and file types that Linux desktop searches could handle. A major advantage of Recoll is that it allows for greater customization of what is indexed; Recoll will index the entire hard disk by default, but can be made to index only selected directories, omitting directories that will never need to be searched.  
      openSUSE 
      Starting with KDE4, the NEPOMUK was introduced. It provided the ability to index a wide range of desktop content, email, and use semantic web technologies (e.g. RDF) to annotate the database. The introduction faced a few glitches, much of which seemed to be based on the triplestore. Performance improved (at least for queries) by switching the backend to a stripped-down version of the Virtuoso Open Source Edition, however indexing remained a common user complaint. Based on user feedback, the Nepomuk indexing and search has been replaced with the Baloo framework based on Xapian.  
      See also 
      
       List of desktop search engines
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "What do you do for desktop search in VDI and RDSH?". Blogpost by Brian Madden on brainmadden.com. Retrieved on March 25, 2015.  
        ^ Anthony Ha (2 June 2008). "Lookeen offers a new way for Outlook users to search". VentureBeat. Retrieved 8 March 2016.  
        ^ 
          Robert L. Mitchell (8 May 2013). "X1 rises again with Desktop Search 8, Virtual Edition". Computerworld. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Security special report: Who sees your data?", Computer Weekly, 2006-04-25.  
        ^ 
          "BBC NEWS - Technology - Search wars hit desktop computers". bbc.co.uk. 26 October 2004. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "KMWorld - The Evolution of Desktop Search". Retrieved 7 January 2019..  
        ^ 
          "dtSearch UK Blog - Desktop Wars". Retrieved 8 January 2019.  
        ^ 
          "SearchMax". goebelgroup.com. Archived from the original on 27 December 2013. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Everything Search Engine". voidtools. Retrieved 27 December 2013.  
        ^ 
          "Vegnos". Vegnos. Retrieved 27 December 2013.  
        ^ 
          Niall Kennedy (17 October 2006). "The current state of video search". Niall Kennedy. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          Niall Kennedy (15 October 2006). "The current state of audio search". Niall Kennedy. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Indexing Service". microsoft.com. Microsoft. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Indexing with Microsoft Index Server". microsoft.com. Microsoft. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Windows Search: Technical FAQ". microsoft.com. Microsoft. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "AppleSearch". infomotions.com. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          eduardo casais. "Converter of current to real US dollars - using the GDP deflator". areppim.com. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Apple - Press Info - Apple to Ship Mac OS X "Tiger" on April 29". apple.com. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "A first look at Tracker 0.6.0". Ars Technica. 26 July 2007. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Recoll user manual". lesbonscomptes.com. Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Linux.com". Retrieved 24 June 2015.  
        ^ http://www.opensuse.org/  
        ^ 
          "Baloo - KDE Community Wiki".  
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Desktop search software
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Apple Spotlight 
             Beagle 
             Copernic Desktop Search 
             DocFetcher 
             GNOME Storage 
             Google Desktop 
             Google Quick Search Box 
             Launchy 
             Lookeen 
             Recoll 
             Strigi 
             Tracker 
             Unity Dash 
             Windows Search
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Desktop_search&amp;oldid=1055234713"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Desktop search engines
       Information retrieval genres
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles that are too technical from October 2014
       All articles that are too technical
       Wikipedia articles with style issues from October 2016
       All articles with style issues
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       Nederlands
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 14 November 2021, at 18:03&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
