
 
  
   
  Environmental social science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Environmental social science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Environment
        
        
          
          
           Human impact (on the climate) 
           Issues 
           Environmentalism 
            
             Stewardship
             
           Environmental studies
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Environment in
           
           
          
           Consulting 
           Education 
           Engineering 
           Humanities 
           Law 
           Policy 
           Science 
           Social science
           
        
        
          
          
           Article index 
           Lists 
           Portal
           
        
        
          
          
            Category 
            Commons
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
       Environmental social science is the broad, transdisciplinary study of interrelations between humans and the natural environment. Environmental social scientists work within and between the fields of anthropology, communication studies, economics, geography, history, political science, psychology, and sociology; and also in the interdisciplinary fields of environmental studies, human ecology and political ecology, social epidemiology, among others.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Ideologies, fields and concepts 
        2 Social epidemiology 
        3 See also 
        4 References 
          
          4.1 Notes 
          4.2 Further reading 
           
        5 External links 
        
       
      Ideologies, fields and concepts 
      Ideologies, fields and concepts in environmental social science aim to convey environmental issues as intertwined in societal relations, institutions and human activities that continually shape the environment or are themselves shaped by the environment. For example, political ecology is based on the premise that the environment is not "A-political" therefore the way it is managed, who has access to the environment, how environmental resources are distributed are shaped through political structures, power relations, economic institutions and social processes. Paul Robbins, conveys this in his differentiation of "A-political verse political ecologies". According to Robbins political ecology places emphasis on identifying "broader systems rather than blaming proximate and local forces; between viewing ecological systems as power-laden rather than politically inert; and between taking an explicitly normative approach rather than one that claims the objectivity of disinterest". Human environmental relations reverberate through "the system" &nbsp;(politics, economics, power relations) moving through an entire web of human relations and structures that are intertwined in ecological relations. 
      Therefore, environmental social scientists stress human – environmental relationships. Another idea that has risen to prominence in environmental social science in light of this, is the idea of "environmental justice" which connects issues in the field of social justice with issues related to the environment. In describing environmental justice, the concepts emphasized by Shoreman-Ouimet and Kopnina include "equity equality, and rights issues in relation to both social and ecological actors". This pans out in debates about environmental vulnerability and the unequal distribution of resources. Here lies the idea, that certain groups are made more vulnerable to "environmental burdens" while others gain more access to "environmental benefits" as defined in terms of environmental resources and services. 
      In further attempting to understand human - environmental relationships disciplines of environmental social science have begun to explore relationships between humans and non-humans, to understand how both interact with each other within the natural world. Interactions that force to reconceptualize identity as ecocultural.Ideas related to exploring human and animal interactions within the natural world, have become prominent in environmental ethics. Shoreman Ouimet and Kopnina define environment ethics as "a sub-discipline of philosophy that deals with the ethical problems surrounding the environment, in some cases providing ethical justification and moral motivation for the cause of environmental protection or for considerations of animal welfare". This has culminated in debates regarding environmental value and moral rights and who within the larger ecosystem should be assigned these rights. Environmental ethics explores the dialectic between human and nature exploring how the human configuration of nature may in turn reshape humans, their relationships and their conditions. Ideas that have emerged from the questions seeking to examine this dialectic include those of "post-domesticity and domesticity". Domesticity refers to societal dynamics produced in societies in which humans have daily contact with animals other than pets in contrast in post-domesticity people are quite distant from the animals they consume in referencing the ideas of Bulliet (2005) Emel and Neo convey that a distance from witnessing the processes that govern animal life including births, deaths while consuming animals as food, impacts people differently than if they were to be interacting continuously with animals. They mention that post- domesticity may produce feelings of guilt however the continued distance between animal life brought by interacting with animals as a commodity may cause people to only distantly relate to them or think of them as packages in a store disassociating them from the life-cycles they embody. Therefore, environmental science has paved the way to multiple concepts, ideas and paradigms that differ among each other but all seek to intertwine issues related to the environment with other fields and issues in the social sciences.  
      Social epidemiology 
      Social epidemiologists research how SES (socio-economic status) determines varying access to resources like income and prestige can generate stratification in health and quality of life. Often, their investigations relate to the social determinants of health which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports as the "conditions in the places where people live, learn, work, and play ... that affect a wide range of health risks and outcomes". These epidemiologists must work in conjunction with environmental social scientists to understand the significance of different environments' effects on humans. Such work influences environmental and public health policies to better the living standards for humans globally. The Fifth European Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health agreed to work on improving low-income housing conditions with new urban planning, health equity, and environmental justice policies with a specific focus on preventing children from exposure to significant environmental health risks. Certain environments' affects on humans provides trends that social epidemiologists can investigate to determine if they are related to a divide of social status especially if only a certain part of the population is negatively affected. Epidemiology uses a host-agent-environment triangle framework to understand why humans are falling ill and this three prong approach allows social epidemiologists to explore how the environment is contributing to the decline in health status for a subsection of or the entire population. It promotes the idea that the social, cultural, economic, political and environmental factors are all important factors to be considered, and health impact assessments (HIA) recommended by social epidemiologists working with environment social scientists are effectively making positive changes in the environment. The World Health Organization (WHO) worked with its members to compose the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) protocol in 2001 to ensure health impact assessments would be made with environmental assessments for policies relating to bettering the quality of life especially within low socioeconomic communities all around the world. As the environment can create stressors that are factors (i.e. low quality housing in areas of high pollution) that limit the quality of life of millions of people globally, environmental social scientists work collaboratively with the data social epidemiologists investigate and provide to understand the relationship between health status and environmental issues.  
      See also 
      
       List of environmental social science journals 
       List of environmental studies topics
       
      References 
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Robbins, Paul (2012). Political Ecology: A critical introduction. Wiley Blackbell. pp.&nbsp;13–14.  
         ^ 
           Robbins, Paul (2012). Political Ecology: A critical Introduction. Wiley Blackbell. p.&nbsp;13.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           Shoreman-Ouimet, Eleanor and Helen; Kopnina (2016). Culture and Conservation: Beyond Anthropocentrism. London, New York: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;120–147.  
         ^ 
           Shoreman-Ouimet, Eleanor and Helen; Kopnina (2016). Culture and Conservation: Beyond Anthropocentrism. London, New York: Routledge. p.&nbsp;146.  
         ^ Milstein, T. &amp; Castro-Sotomayor, J. (2020). "Routledge Handbook of Ecocultural Identity." London, UK: Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781351068840.  
         ^ a b c 
           Emel, Jodey &amp; Harvey; Neo (2015). Political Ecology of Meat. London, New York: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;5–6.  
         ^ 
           Berkman, Lisa F.; Kawachi, Ichirō; Glymour, M. Maria (2014). Social Epidemiology. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780195377903.  
         ^ 
           "Social Determinants of Health | CDC". www.cdc.gov. 2017-07-28. Retrieved 2017-11-20.  
         ^ 
           "WHO | Housing and Health". www.who.int. Archived from the original on March 7, 2011. Retrieved 2017-11-20.  
         ^ a b 
           Gulis, Gabriel; Fujino, Yoshihisa (2015-03-05). "Epidemiology, Population Health, and Health Impact Assessment". Journal of Epidemiology. 25 (3): 179–180. doi:10.2188/jea.JE20140212. ISSN&nbsp;0917-5040. PMC&nbsp;4340993. PMID&nbsp;25716580.  
         ^ 
           "WHO | WHO activities in HIA". www.who.int. Archived from the original on July 1, 2004. Retrieved 2017-11-20.  
         ^ 
           Berkman, Lisa F.; Kawachi, Ichirō; Glymour, M. Maria (2014). Social Epidemiology. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780195377903.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Berkhout, Frans, Melissa Leach, and Ian Scoones. 2003. "Shifting perspectives in environmental social science." pp.&nbsp;1–31 in Negotiating Environmental Change: New Perspectives from Social Science. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1843761532 
       Folmer, Henk, and Olof Johansson-Stenman. 2011. "Does Environmental Economics Produce Aeroplanes Without Engines? On the Need for an Environmental Social Science," Environmental and Resource Economics 48 (3): 337-361. 
       Moran, Emilio. 2010. Environmental Social Science: Human-Environment Interactions and Sustainability. Malden, MA: John Wiley. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1405105743 
       Scoones, I. 1999. "New Ecology and the Social Sciences: What Prospects for a Fruitful Engagement?" Annual Review of Anthropology 28: 479-507. 
       Vaccaro, Ismael, Eric Alden Smith, and Shankar Aswani, eds. 2010. Environmental Social Sciences: Methods and Research Design. Cambridge, UK, and New York: Cambridge University Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-12571-0
       
      External links 
      
       Environment and Society: Scholarly Journals
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Environmental social science
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Ecological anthropology 
             Ecological economics 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Environmental crime 
             Environmental economics 
             Environmental communication 
             Environmental history 
             Environmental politics 
             Environmental psychology 
             Environmental sociology 
             Human ecology 
             Human geography 
             Political ecology 
             Regional science
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Agroecology 
             Anthrozoology 
             Behavioral geography 
             Community studies 
             Demography 
             Design 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Ecological humanities 
             Economics 
              
               energy 
               thermo
               
             Environmental 
              
               education 
               ethics 
               law 
               science 
               studies
               
             Ethnobiology 
              
               botany 
               ecology 
               zoology
               
             Forestry 
             Industrial ecology 
             Integrated geography 
             Permaculture 
             Rural sociology 
             Sexecology 
             Science, technology and society 
              
               science studies
               
             Sustainability 
              
               science 
               studies
               
             Systems ecology 
             Urban 
              
               ecology 
               geography 
               metabolism 
               studies
              
             
           
         
         
          Applied
          
            
            
             Architecture 
              
               landscape 
               sustainable
               
             Ecopsychology 
             Engineering 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Green criminology 
             Health 
              
               environmental 
               epidemiology 
               occupational 
               public
               
             Management 
              
               environmental 
               fisheries 
               forest 
               natural resource 
               waste
               
             Planning 
              
               environmental 
               land use 
               regional 
               spatial 
               urban
               
             Policy 
              
               energy 
               environmental
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Environment portal 
              Category 
             Concepts 
             Degrees 
             Journals 
             Research institutes 
             Scholars
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_social_science&amp;oldid=1060033222"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Environmental social science
       Transdisciplinarity
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       भोजपुरी
       فارسی
       한국어
       Português
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 13 December 2021, at 02:20&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
