
 
  
   
  Media studies - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Media studies 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Field of study that deals with media
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (November 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
       Media studies is a discipline and field of study that deals with the content, history, and effects of various media; in particular, the mass media. Media Studies may draw on traditions from both the social sciences and the humanities, but mostly from its core disciplines of mass communication, communication, communication sciences, and communication studies. 
      Researchers may also develop and employ theories and methods from disciplines including cultural studies, rhetoric (including digital rhetoric), philosophy, literary theory, psychology, political science, political economy, economics, sociology, anthropology, social theory, art history and criticism, film theory, and information theory.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origin 
        2 Australia 
        3 Canada 
        4 China 
        5 Czech Republic 
        6 France 
        7 Germany 
        8 India 
        9 Netherlands 
        10 New Zealand 
        11 Pakistan 
        12 Switzerland 
        13 United Kingdom 
        14 United States 
        15 See also 
        16 References 
        17 External links 
        
       
      Origin 
      
      
       Further information: History of media studies
       
      The first Media Studies M.A. program in the U.S. was introduced by John Culkin at The New School in 1975, which has since graduated more than 2,000 students. Culkin was responsible for bringing Marshall McLuhan to Fordham in 1968 and subsequently founded the Center for Understanding Media, which became the New School program.  
      Australia 
      Media is studied as a broad subject in most states in Australia. Media studies in Australia was first developed as an area of study in Victorian universities in the early 1960s, and in secondary schools in the mid 1960s. 
      Today, almost all Australian universities teach media studies. According to the Government of Australia's "Excellence in Research for Australia" report, the leading universities in the country for media studies (which were ranked well above World standards by the report's scoring methodology) are Monash University, QUT, RMIT, University of Melbourne, University of Queensland and UTS. 
      In secondary schools, an early film studies course first began being taught as part of the Victorian junior secondary curriculum during the mid 1960s. And, by the early 1970s, an expanded media studies course was being taught. The course became part of the senior secondary curriculum (later known as the Victorian Certificate of Education or "VCE") in the 1980s. It has since become, and continues to be, a strong component of the VCE. Notable figures in the development of the Victorian secondary school curriculum were the long time Rusden College media teacher Peter Greenaway (not the British film director), Trevor Barr (who authored one of the first media text books Reflections of Reality) and later John Murray (who authored The Box in the Corner, In Focus, and 10 Lessons in Film Appreciation). 
      Today, Australian states and territories that teach media studies at a secondary level are Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia. Media studies does not appear to be taught in the state of New South Wales at a secondary level. 
      In Victoria, the VCE media studies course is structured as: Unit 1 - Representation, Technologies of Representation, and New Media; Unit 2 - Media Production, Australian Media Organisations; Unit 3 - Narrative Texts, Production Planning; and Unit 4 - Media Process, Social Values, and Media Influence. Media studies also form a major part of the primary and junior secondary curriculum, and includes areas such as photography, print media and television. 
      Victoria also hosts the peak media teaching body known as ATOM which publishes Metro and Screen Education magazines.  
      Canada 
      In Canada, media studies and communication studies are incorporated in the same departments and cover a wide range of approaches (from critical theory to organizations to research-creation and political economy, for example). Over time, research developed to employ theories and methods from cultural studies, philosophy, political economy, gender, sexuality and race theory, management, rhetoric, film theory, sociology, and anthropology. Harold Innis and Marshall McLuhan are famous Canadian scholars for their contributions to the fields of media ecology and political economy in the 20th century. They were both important members of the Toronto School of Communication at the time. More recently, the School of Montreal and its founder James R. Taylor significantly contributed to the field of organizational communication by focusing on the ontological processes of organizations. 
      Carleton University and the University of Western Ontario, 1945 and 1946 prospectively, created Journalism specific programs or schools. A Journalism specific program was also created at Ryerson in 1950. The first communication programs in Canada were started at Ryerson and Concordia Universities. The Radio and Television Arts program at Ryerson were started in the 1950s, while the Film, Media Studies/Media Arts, and Photography programs also originated from programs started in the 1950s. The Communication studies department at Concordia was created in the late 1960s. Ryerson's Radio and Television, Film, Media and Photography programs were renowned by the mid 1970s, and its programs were being copied by other colleges and universities nationally and Internationally. 
      Today, most universities offer undergraduate degrees in Media and Communication Studies, and many Canadian scholars actively contribute to the field, among which: Brian Massumi (philosophy, cultural studies), Kim Sawchuk (cultural studies, feminist, ageing studies), Carrie Rentschler (feminist theory), and François Cooren (organizational communication). 
      In his book “Understanding Media, The Extensions of Man”, media theorist Marshall McLuhan suggested that "the medium is the message", and that all human artefacts and technologies are media. His book introduced the usage of terms such as “media” into our language along with other precepts, among them “global village” and “Age of Information”. A medium is anything that mediates our interaction with the world or other humans. Given this perspective, media study is not restricted to just media of communications but all forms of technology. Media and their users form an ecosystem and the study of this ecosystem is known as media ecology. 
      McLuhan says that the “technique of fragmentation that is the essence of machine technology” shaped the restructuring of human work and association and “the essence of automation technology is the opposite”. He uses an example of the electric light to make this connection and to explain “the medium is the message”. The electric light is pure information and it is a medium without a message unless it is used to spell out some verbal ad or a name. The characteristic of all media means the “content” of any medium is always another medium. For example, the content of writing is speech, the written word is the content of print, and print is the content of the telegraph. The change that the medium or technology introduces into human affairs is the “message”. If the electric light is used for Friday night football or to light up your desk you could argue that the content of the electric light is these activities. The fact that it is the medium that shapes and controls the form of human association and action makes it the message. The electric light is over looked as a communication medium because it doesn't have any content. It is not until the electric light is used to spell a brand name that it is recognized as medium. Similar to radio and other mass media electric light eliminates time and space factors in human association creating deeper involvement. McLuhan compared the “content” to a juicy piece of meat being carried by a burglar to distract the “watchdog of the mind”. The effect of the medium is made strong because it is given another media “content”. The content of a movie is a book, play or maybe even an opera. 
      McLuhan talks about media being “hot” or “cold” and touches on the principle that distinguishes them from one another. A hot medium (i.e., radio or Movie) extends a single sense in “high definition”. High definition means the state of being well filled with data. A cool medium (i.e., Telephone and TV) is considered “low definition” because a small amount of data/information is given and has to be filled in. Hot media are low in participation and cool media are high in participation. Hot media are low in participation because it is giving most of the information and it excludes. Cool media are high in participation because it gives you information but you have to fill in the blanks and it is inclusive. He used lecturing as an example for hot media and seminars as an example for low media. If you use a hot medium in a hot or cool culture makes a difference.  
      China 
      There are two universities in China that specialize in media studies. Communication University of China, formerly known as the Beijing Broadcasting Institute, that dates back to 1954. CUC has 15,307 full-time students, including 9264 undergraduates, 3512 candidates for doctor and master's degrees and 16,780 students in programs of continuing education. The other university known for media studies in China is Zhejiang University of Media and Communications (ZUMC) which has campuses in Hangzhou and Tongxiang. Almost 10,000 full-time students are currently studying in over 50 programs at the 13 Colleges and Schools of ZUMC. Both institutions have produced some of China's brightest broadcasting talents for television as well as leading journalists at magazines and newspapers.  
      Czech Republic 
      There is no university specialized on journalism and media studies, but there are seven public universities which have a department of media studies. Three biggest are based in Prague (Charles University), Brno (Masaryk University) and Olomouc (Palacký University). There are another nine private universities and colleges which has media studies department.  
      France 
      One prominent French media critic is the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu who wrote among other books On Television (New Press, 1999). Bourdieu's analysis is that television provides far less autonomy, or freedom, than we think. In his view, the market (which implies the hunt for higher advertising revenue) not only imposes uniformity and banality, but also a form of invisible censorship. When, for example, television producers "pre-interview" participants in news and public affairs programs, to ensure that they will speak in simple, attention-grabbing terms, and when the search for viewers leads to an emphasis on the sensational and the spectacular, people with complex or nuanced views are not allowed a hearing.  
      Germany 
      In Germany two main branches of media theory or media studies can be identified. 
      The first major branch of media theory has its roots in the humanities and cultural studies, such as film studies ("Filmwissenschaft"), theater studies ("Theaterwissenschaft") and German language and literature studies ("Germanistik") as well as Comparative Literature Studies ("Komparatistik"). This branch has broadened out substantially since the 1990s. And it is on this initial basis that a culturally-based media studies (often emphasised more recently through the disciplinary title Medienkulturwissenschaft) in Germany has primarily developed and established itself. 
      This plurality of perspectives make it difficult to single out one particular site where this branch of Medienwissenschaft originated. While the Frankfurt-based theatre scholar, Hans-Theis Lehmanns term "post dramatic theater" points directly to the increased blending of co-presence and mediatized material in the German theater (and elsewhere) since the 1970s, the field of theater studies from the 1990s onwards at the Freie Universität Berlin, led in particular by Erika Fischer-Lichte, showed particular interest in the ways in which theatricality influenced notions of performativity in aesthetic events. Within the field of Film Studies, again, both Frankfurt and Berlin were dominant in the development of new perspectives on moving image media. Heide Schlüpman in Frankfurt and Gertrud Koch, first in Bochum then in Berlin, were key theorists contributing to an aesthetic theory of the cinema (Schlüpmann) as dispositif and the moving image as medium, particularly in the context of illusion (Koch). Many scholars who became known as media scholars in Germany originally were scholars of German, such as Friedrich Kittler, who taught at the Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, completed both his dissertation and habilitation in the context of Germanistik. One of the early publications in this new direction is a volume edited by Helmut Kreuzer, Literature Studies - Media Studies (Literaturwissenschaft – Medienwissenschaft), which summarizes the presentations given at the Düsseldorfer Germanistentag 1976. 
      The second branch of media studies in Germany is comparable to Communication Studies. Pioneered by Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann in the 1940s, this branch studies mass media, its institutions and its effects on society and individuals. The German Institute for Media and Communication Policy, founded in 2005 by media scholar Lutz Hachmeister, is one of the few independent research institutions that is dedicated to issues surrounding media and communications policies. 
      The term Wissenschaft cannot be translated straightforwardly as studies, as it calls to mind both scientific methods and the humanities. Accordingly, German media theory combines philosophy, psychoanalysis, history, and scientific studies with media-specific research. 
      Medienwissenschaften is currently one of the most popular courses of study at universities in Germany, with many applicants mistakenly assuming that studying it will automatically lead to a career in TV or other media. This has led to widespread disillusionment, with students blaming the universities for offering highly theoretical course content. The universities maintain that practical journalistic training is not the aim of the academic studies they offer.  
      India 
      Media Studies is a fast growing academic field in India, with several dedicated departments and research institutes. With a view to making the best use of communication facilities for information, publicity and development, the Government of India in 1962-63 sought the advice of the Ford Foundation/UNESCO team of internationally known mass communication specialists who recommended the setting up of a national institute for training, teaching and research in mass communication. Anna University was the first university to start Master of Science in Electronic Media programmes. It offers a five-year integrated programme and a two-year programme in Electronic Media. The Department of Media Sciences was started in January 2002, branching off from the UGC's Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC). National Institute of Open Schooling, the world's largest open schooling system, offers Mass Communication as a subject of studies at senior secondary level. All the major universities in the country have mass media and journalism studies departments. Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi has media studies as one of their major emphasis.  
      Netherlands 
      In the Netherlands, media studies are split into several academic courses such as (applied) communication sciences, communication- and information sciences, communication and media, media and culture or theater, film and television sciences. Whereas communication sciences focuses on the way people communicate, be it mediated or unmediated, media studies tends to narrow the communication down to just mediated communication. However, it would be a mistake to consider media studies a specialism of communication sciences, since media make up just a small portion of the overall course. Indeed, both studies tend to borrow elements from one another. 
      Communication sciences (or a derivative thereof) can be studied at Erasmus University Rotterdam, Radboud University, Tilburg University, University of Amsterdam, University of Groningen, University of Twente, Roosevelt Academy, University of Utrecht, VU University Amsterdam and Wageningen University and Research Centre. 
      Media studies (or something similar) can be studied at the University of Amsterdam, VU University Amsterdam, Erasmus University Rotterdam, University of Groningen and the University of Utrecht. 
      Eight Dutch universities collaborate in the overarching Netherlands Research school for Media Studies (RMeS), which acts as a platform for graduate students in media research.  
      New Zealand 
      Media studies in New Zealand is healthy, especially due to renewed activity in the country's film industry and is taught at both secondary and tertiary education institutes. Media studies in NZ can be regarded as a singular success, with the subject well-established in the tertiary sector (such as Screen and Media Studies at the University of Waikato; Media Studies, Victoria University of Wellington; Film, Television and Media Studies, University of Auckland; Media Studies, Massey University; Communication Studies, University of Otago). 
      Different courses can offer students a range of specialisations- such as cultural studies, media theory and analysis, practical film-making, journalism and communications studies. But what makes the case of New Zealand particularly significant in respect of Media Studies is that for more than a decade it has been a nationally mandated and very popular subject in secondary (high) schools, taught across three years in a very structured and developmental fashion, with Scholarship in Media Studies available for academically gifted students. According to the New Zealand Ministry of Education Subject Enrolment figures 229 New Zealand schools offered Media Studies as a subject in 2016, representing more than 14,000 students.  
      Pakistan 
      In Pakistan, media studies programs are widely offered. University of the Punjab Lahore is the oldest department. Later on University of Karachi, Peshawar University, BZU Multaan, Islamia University Bahwalpur also started communication programs. Now, newly established universities are also offering mass communication program in which University of Gujrat emerged as a leading department. Bahria University which is established by Pakistan Navy is also offering BS in media studies.  
      Switzerland 
      In Switzerland, media and communication studies are offered by several higher education institutions including the International University in Geneva, Zurich University of Applied Sciences, University of Lugano, University of Fribourg and others.  
      United Kingdom 
      In the United Kingdom, media studies developed in the 1960s from the academic study of English, and from literary criticism more broadly. The key date, according to Andrew Crisell, is 1959:  
      
       When Joseph Trenaman left the BBC's Further Education Unit to become the first holder of the Granada Research Fellowship in Television at Leeds University. Soon after in 1966, the Centre for Mass Communication Research was founded at Leicester University, and degree programmes in media studies began to sprout at polytechnics and other universities during the 1970s and 1980s.
       
      James Halloran at the University of Leicester is credited with much influence in the development of media studies and communication studies, as the head of the university's Centre for Mass Communication Research, and founder of the International Association for Media and Communication Research. Media Studies is now taught all over the UK. It is taught at Key Stages 1– 3, Entry Level, GCSE and at A level and the Scottish Qualifications Authority offers formal qualifications at a number of different levels. It is offered through a large area of exam boards including AQA and WJEC. 
      Much research in the field of news media studies has been led by the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism. Details of the research projects and results are published in the RISJ annual report.  
      United States 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section may need to be rewritten to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The talk page may contain suggestions. (October 2014)
          
        
       
       
      Mass communication, communication studies or simply 'Communication' are names that are used far more frequently than “media studies” for academic departments in the United States. However, the focus of such programs sometimes excludes certain media—film, book publishing, video games, etc. The title “media studies” may be used alone, to designate film studies and rhetorical or critical theory, or it may appear in combinations like “media studies and communication” to join two fields or emphasize a different focus. It involves the study of many emerging, contemporary media and platforms, with social media having boomed in recent years. Broadcast and cable TV is no longer the primary form of entertainment, with various screens offering worldwide events and pastimes around the clock. Proceeding are some examples of the evolution of some institutions that reside within the United States who have taken media studies under their wing and grown with it. 
      In 1999, the MIT Comparative Media Studies program started under the leadership of Henry Jenkins, since growing into a graduate program, MIT's largest humanities major, and, following a 2012 merger with the Writing and Humanistic Studies program, a roster of twenty faculty, including Pulitzer Prize-winning author Junot Diaz, science fiction writer Joe Haldeman, games scholar T. L. Taylor, and media scholars William Uricchio (a CMS co-founder), Edward Schiappa, and Heather Hendershot. Now named Comparative Media Studies/Writing, the department places an emphasis on what Jenkins and colleagues had termed "applied humanities": it hosts several research groups for civic media, digital humanities, games, computational media, documentary, and mobile design, and these groups are used to provide graduate students with research assistantships to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. The incorporation of Writing and Humanistic Studies also placed MIT's Science Writing program, Writing Across the Curriculum, and Writing and Communications Center under the same roof. 
      Around the same time as MIT an interdisciplinary major at the University of Virginia, the Department of Media Studies was officially established in 2000 and has rapidly grown and doubled in size in 2011. This is partly thanks to the acquisition of Professor Siva Vaidhyanathan, a cultural historian and media scholar, as well as the Inaugural Verklin Media Policy and Ethics Conference, endowed by the CEO of Canoe Ventures and UVA alumnus David Verklin. 
      University of California, Irvine had professor Mark Poster who was one of the first and foremost theorists of media culture in the US who boasted a strong Department of Film &amp; Media Studies. University of California, Berkeley has three institutional structures within media studies that take place in the department of Film and Media (formerly Film Studies Program), including famous theorists as Mary Ann Doane and Linda Williams, the Center for New Media, and a long established interdisciplinary program formerly titled Mass Communications, which recently changed its name to Media Studies. This change eliminated any connotations that may accompany the term “Mass” in the former title. Until recently, Radford University in Virginia used the title "media studies" for a department that taught practitioner-oriented major concentrations in journalism, advertising, broadcast production and Web design. In 2008, those programs were combined with a previous department of communication (speech and public relations) to create a School of Communication. (A media studies major at Radford still means someone concentrating on journalism, broadcasting, advertising or Web production.) 
      Brooklyn College has collaborated with City University of New York to offer graduate studies in television and media since 2015. Currently, the Department of Television and Radio administers an MS in Media Studies, and hosts the Center for the Study of World Television.  
      See also 
      
       Anthropology of media 
       Fan studies 
       Innis's time- and space-bias 
       Journalism 
       Market for loyalties theory 
       Mass media 
       Mass communication 
       McLuhan's tetrad of media effects 
       Media culture 
       Media echo chamber 
       Media ecology 
       Media literacy 
       Media psychology 
       Media-system dependency 
       Mediatization (media) 
       Narcotizing dysfunction 
       Social aspects of television 
       Sociology 
       The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere 
       Transparency (humanities) 
       Uses and gratifications theory
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Webster, Frank (1995). Theories of The Information Society. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;0-415-10574-9.  
         ^ 
           Dayan, Daniel &amp; Katz, Elihu (1992). Media Events. London, England: Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-674-55956-8.  
         ^ 
            (PDF) http://www.education.vic.gov.au/Documents/about/programs/learningdev/intrnatinlisingschlsplan.pdf. }: Missing or empty |title= (help)  
         ^  Excellence in Research for Australia, "Section 2: Results by Field of Research Code", Australian Research Council (Government of Australia)  
         ^  Excellence in Research for Australia, "Section 4: Institutional Report" (20. Languages, Communication and Culture), Australian Research Council (Government of Australia), p286  
         ^ a b 
           McLuhan, Marshall (1964). Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man (1st&nbsp;ed.). McGraw-Hill. ISBN&nbsp;0-262-63159-8.  
         ^ 
           "Welcome to Communication University of China". cuc.edu.cn. Archived from the original on 30 July 2015. Retrieved 26 July 2015.  
         ^ Cass R. Sunstein, New York Times, Television, a French sociologist explains, dumbs itself down, August 2, 1998.  
         ^ Jan-Martin Wiarda: Medien-was?, Die Zeit, 19. May 2005.  
         ^ NZ Ministry of Education https://educationcounts.govt.nz/statistics/schooling/student-numbers/subject-enrolment  
         ^ 
           Crisell, Andrew (2002). An Introductory History of British Broadcasting (2&nbsp;ed.). London: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;186–7. ISBN&nbsp;0-415-24792-6.  
         ^ 
           Mosco, Vincent (9 September 2011). The Political Economy of Communication (2&nbsp;ed.). London: Sage Publications. p.&nbsp;89. ISBN&nbsp;9781446204948. Retrieved 24 November 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-03-05. Retrieved 2016-01-05.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           Taylor, T. L (2018). Watch me play: Twitch and the rise of game live streaming. doi:10.23943/9780691184975 (inactive 31 October 2021). ISBN&nbsp;978-0-691-18497-5. OCLC&nbsp;1048895825.}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of October 2021 (link)  
         ^ 
           Gong, Zhaoya; Cai, Tengteng; Thill, Jean-Claude; Hale, Scott; Graham, Mark (2020-05-22). "Measuring relative opinion from location-based social media: A case study of the 2016 U.S. presidential election". PLOS ONE. 15 (5): e0233660. arXiv:2002.00854. Bibcode:2020PLoSO..1533660G. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0233660. ISSN&nbsp;1932-6203. PMC&nbsp;7244148. PMID&nbsp;32442212.  
         ^ 
           Olsson, Jan; Spigel, Lynn, eds. (2004). Television after TV. doi:10.1215/9780822386278. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8223-3383-8.  
         ^ a b 
           "About Comparative Media Studies". MIT Graduate Program in Comparative Media Studies. Retrieved 2020-11-10.  
         ^ 
           "About MIT Comparative Media Studies/Writing". MIT Comparative Media Studies/Writing. Retrieved 2020-11-10.  
         ^ 
           "Mission and Academics | Department of Media Studies". mediastudies.as.virginia.edu. Retrieved 2020-11-10.  
         ^ 
           "David Verklin". broadcastingcable.com. Archived from the original on 11 June 2010. Retrieved 26 July 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Made in NY - Mayor's Office of Film, Theatre &amp; Broadcasting - About". www.nyc.gov. Retrieved 2020-11-10.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Media studies
         
       
       
      
       ‘Media Studies: Text, Production and Context' - How to do Media Studies by Paul Long and Tim Wall from Birmingham City University. 
       The Media Literacy of Primary School Children - How far do Primary School children have the knowledge and skills to access media, make sense of the representations and images produced and to create their own? by Grant Strudley, University of Reading'
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Media studies
           
         
         
          General concepts
          
            
            
             Influence of mass media 
             Mass communication 
             Mass society 
             Media ecology 
             Media literacy 
             New literacies 
             Public opinion 
             Social aspects of television
             
           
         
         
          Notable theories
          
            
            
             Culture industry 
             Echo chamber 
             Manifest and latent functions and dysfunctions 
             Mediatization 
             Opinion leadership 
             Semiotic democracy 
             Two-step flow of communication
             
           
         
         
          Notable works
          
            
            
             The Lonely Crowd 
             The Power Elite
             
           
         
         
          Notable academics
          
            
            
             Paul Lazarsfeld 
             Elihu Katz 
             Robert K. Merton 
             Bernard Berelson
             
           
         
         
          Subdisciplines
          
            
            
             Television studies
             
           
         
         
          Approaches
          
            
            
             Media psychology 
             Structural functionalism
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Media culture
           
         
         
          Media
          
            
            
             Mass media 
             Mainstream media 
             24-hour news cycle 
             News broadcasting 
             News media
             
           
         
         
          Ideology
          
            
            
             Mainstream 
             Advanced capitalism 
             American Dream 
             Bipartisanship 
             Consumerism 
             Pensée unique 
             Pop music
             
           
         
         
          Deception
          
           
           
            
             
              Forms
              
                
                
                 Advertising 
                 Propaganda 
                  
                   Fake news
                   
                 Public relations 
                 Spin 
                 Tabloid journalism
                 
               
             
             
              Techniques
              
                
                
                 Cult of personality 
                 Dumbing down 
                 Framing 
                 Media circus 
                 Media event 
                 Narcotizing dysfunction 
                 Recuperation 
                 Sensationalism
                 
               
             
             
              Others
              
                
                
                 Catch and kill 
                 Crowd manipulation 
                 Managing the news 
                 Media manipulation
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Philosophers
          
            
            
             Theodor W. Adorno 
             Jean Baudrillard 
             Edward Bernays 
             Noam Chomsky 
             Guy Debord 
             Walter Lippmann 
             Marshall McLuhan 
             Jacques Rancière
             
           
         
         
          Counterculture
          
            
            
             Boycott 
             Call-out culture 
             Cancel culture 
             Civil disobedience 
             Culture jamming 
             Demonstration 
             Graffiti 
             Occupation 
             Political satire 
             Protest 
             Punk 
             Strike action
             
           
         
         
          In academia
          
            
            
             Influence of mass media 
             Media studies 
             Mediatization 
             Semiotic democracy 
             The Lonely Crowd
             
           
         
         
          Issues
          
            
            
             Anonymity 
             Concentration of media ownership 
             Freedom of speech 
             Media bias 
             Privacy
             
           
         
         
          Synonyms
          
            
            
             Advanced capitalism 
             Culture industry 
             Mass society 
             Post-Fordism 
             Society of the Spectacle
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Communication studies
           
         
         
          
            
            
             History 
             Outline
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Topics and
             terminology
           
          
            
            
             Biocommunication 
             Broadcasting 
             Communication 
             Computer-mediated communication 
             Conversation 
             History of communication 
             Information 
             Intercultural&nbsp;/ Interpersonal&nbsp;/ Intrapersonal communication 
             Journalism 
             Mass media 
             Meaning 
             Media ecology 
             Meta-communication 
             Models of communication 
             New media 
             Nonverbal communication 
             Propaganda 
             Reading 
             Speech 
             Symbol 
             Telecommunication 
             Text and conversation theory 
             Writing
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Communication design 
             Communication theory 
             Communicology 
             Crisis communication 
             Climate communication 
             Cross-cultural communication 
             Development communication 
             Discourse analysis 
             Environmental communication 
             Global communication 
             Health communication 
             International communication 
             Mass communication 
             Media studies 
             Mediated cross-border communication 
             Organizational communication 
             Political communication 
             Risk communication 
             Science communication 
             Technical communication 
             Visual communication 
             Closed-loop communication
             
           
         
         
          Scholars
          
            
            
             Adorno 
             Barthes 
             Bateson 
             Benjamin 
             Burke 
             Castells 
             Chomsky 
             Craig 
             Fisher 
             Flusser 
             Gasset 
             Gerbner 
             Goffman 
             Habermas 
             Horkheimer 
             Huxley 
             Innis 
             Jakobson 
             Janis 
             Johnson 
             Kincaid 
             Lippman 
             Luhmann 
             Marcuse 
             McLuhan 
             Mead 
             Morgan 
             Ong 
             Packard 
             Peirce 
             Postman 
             Quebral 
             Richards 
             Rogers 
             Schramm 
             Tankard 
             Tannen 
             Wertheimer
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Media_studies&amp;oldid=1067537010"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Media studies
       Humanities
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing title
       CS1 errors: bare URL
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of October 2021
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from November 2021
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Wikipedia articles needing rewrite from October 2014
       All articles needing rewrite
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Latina
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 00:49&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
