
 
  
   
  Philosophy of history - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Philosophy of history 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Theoretical aspect of history
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with History of philosophy.
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            
             This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Portuguese. (August 2021) Click  for important translation instructions.
            
             
             
               
              Machine translation like DeepL or Google Translate is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. 
              Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 1,305 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. 
              Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. 
              You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Portuguese Wikipedia article at ]; see its history for attribution. 
              You should also add the template } to the talk page. 
              For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.
             
            
           
          
        
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article may lack focus or may be about more than one topic. In particular, the article may stray too far from the topic of philosophy into sociology and historiography. Please help improve this article, possibly by splitting the article and/or by introducing a disambiguation page, or discuss this issue on the talk page. (November 2019)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Philosophy of history"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Philosophy of history is the philosophical study of history and its discipline. The term was coined by French philosopher Voltaire. 
      In contemporary philosophy a distinction has developed between speculative philosophy of history and critical philosophy of history, now referred to as analytic. The former questions the meaning and purpose of the historical process whereas the latter studies the foundations and implications of history and the historical method. The names of these are derived from C. D. Broad's distinction between critical philosophy and speculative philosophy.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origins 
        2 Concepts 
          
          2.1 Philosophy of chronology 
          2.2 Philosophy of causality 
          2.3 Philosophy of neutrality 
           
        3 Operative theories 
          
          3.1 Teleological approaches 
          3.2 Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel 
          3.3 Thomas Carlyle 
          3.4 Social evolutionism 
           
        4 Contextual theories 
          
          4.1 Karl Marx 
          4.2 Michel Foucault 
           
        5 Other approaches 
          
          5.1 Narrative history 
           
        6 Education and propaganda 
        7 See also 
        8 Notes 
        9 References 
        10 Further reading 
        11 External links 
        
       
      Origins 
      In his Poetics, Aristotle (384–322 BCE) maintained the superiority of poetry over history because poetry speaks of what ought or must be true rather than merely what is true. 
      Herodotus, a fifth-century BCE contemporary of Socrates, broke from the Homeric tradition of passing narrative from generation to generation in his work "Investigations" (Ancient Greek: Ἱστορίαι; Istoríai), also known as Histories. Herodotus, regarded by some as the first systematic historian, and, later, Plutarch (46–120 CE) freely invented speeches for their historical figures and chose their historical subjects with an eye toward morally improving the reader. History was supposed to teach good examples for one to follow. The assumption that history "should teach good examples" influenced how writers produced history. 
      From the Classical period to the Renaissance, historians alternated between focusing on subjects designed to improve mankind and on a devotion to fact. History was composed mainly of hagiographies of monarchs or of epic poetry describing heroic gestures (such as The Song of Roland—about the Battle of Roncevaux Pass (778) during Charlemagne's first campaign to conquer the Iberian peninsula). 
      In the fourteenth century, Ibn Khaldun, who is considered one of the fathers of the philosophy of history, discussed his philosophy of history and society in detail in his Muqaddimah (1377). His work represents a culmination of earlier works by medieval Islamic sociologists in the spheres of Islamic ethics, political science, and historiography, such as those of al-Farabi (c. 872 – c. 950), Ibn Miskawayh, al-Dawani, and Nasir al-Din al-Tusi (1201–1274). Ibn Khaldun often criticized "idle superstition and uncritical acceptance of historical data". He introduced a scientific method to the philosophy of history (which Dawood considers something "totally new to his age") and he often referred to it as his "new science", which is now associated with historiography. His historical method also laid the groundwork for the observation of the role of the state, communication, propaganda, and systematic bias in history. 
      By the eighteenth century historians had turned toward a more positivist approach—focusing on fact as much as possible, but still with an eye on telling histories that could instruct and improve. Starting with Fustel de Coulanges (1830–1889) and Theodor Mommsen (1817–1903), historical studies began to move towards a more modern scientific form. In the Victorian era, historiographers debated less whether history was intended to improve the reader, and more on what causes turned history and how one could understand historical change.  
      Concepts 
      Philosophy of chronology 
      Many ancient cultures held mythical and theological concepts of history and of time that were not linear. Such societies saw history as cyclical, with alternating Dark and Golden Ages. Plato taught the concept of the Great Year, and other Greeks spoke of aeons. Similar examples include the ancient doctrine of eternal return, which existed in Ancient Egypt, in the Indian religions, among the Greek Pythagoreans' and in the Stoics' conceptions. In his Works and Days, Hesiod described five Ages of Man: the Golden Age, the Silver Age, the Bronze Age, the Heroic Age, and the Iron Age, which began with the Dorian invasion. Some scholars identify just four ages, corresponding to the four metals, with the Heroic age as a description of the Bronze Age. A four-age count would match the Vedic or Hindu ages known as Satya Yuga, Treta Yuga, Dvapara Yuga and Kali Yuga, which together make one Yuga Cycle that repeats. According to Jainism, this world has no beginning or end but goes through cycles of upturns (utsarpini) and downturns (avasarpini) constantly. Many Greeks believed that just as mankind went through four stages of character during each rise and fall of history so did government. They considered democracy and monarchy as the healthy régimes of the higher ages; and oligarchy and tyranny as corrupted régimes common to the lower ages. 
      In the East, cyclical theories of history developed in China (as a theory of dynastic cycle) and in the Islamic world in the work  of Ibn Khaldun (1332-1406). 
      During the Renaissance, cyclical conceptions of history would become common, with proponents illustrating decay and rebirth by pointing to the decline of the Roman Empire. Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy (1513–1517) provide an example. The notion of Empire contained in itself ascendance and decadence, as in Edward Gibbon's The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (1776) (which the Roman Catholic Church placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum). 
      During the Age of Enlightenment, history began to be seen as both linear and irreversible. Condorcet's interpretations of the various "stages of humanity" and Auguste Comte's positivism were among the most important formulations of such conceptions of history, which trusted social progress. As in Jean-Jacques Rousseau's Emile (1762) treatise on education (or the "art of training men"), the Enlightenment conceived the human species as perfectible: human nature could be infinitely developed through a well-thought pedagogy. 
      Cyclical conceptions continued in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in the works of authors such as Oswald Spengler (1880–1936), Nikolay Danilevsky (1822–1885), and Paul Kennedy (1945– ), who conceived the human past as a series of repetitive rises and falls. Spengler, like Butterfield, when writing in reaction to the carnage of the First World War of 1914–1918, believed that a civilization enters upon an era of Caesarism after its soul dies. Spengler thought that the soul of the West was dead and that Caesarism was about to begin.  
      Philosophy of causality 
      Narrative and causal approaches to history have often been contrasted or even opposed to one another, yet they can also be viewed as complementary. Some philosophers of history such as Arthur Danto have claimed that "explanations in history and elsewhere" describe "not simply an event—something that happens—but a change". Like many practicing historians, they treat causes as intersecting actions and sets of actions which bring about "larger changes", in Danto's words: to decide "what are the elements which persist through a change" is "rather simple" when treating an individual's "shift in attitude", but "it is considerably more complex and metaphysically challenging when we are interested in such a change as, say, the break-up of feudalism or the emergence of nationalism". 
      Much of the historical debate about causes has focused on the relationship between communicative and other actions, between singular and repeated ones, and between actions, structures of action or group and institutional contexts and wider sets of conditions. John Gaddis has distinguished between exceptional and general causes (following Marc Bloch) and between "routine" and "distinctive links" in causal relationships: "in accounting for what happened at Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, we attach greater importance to the fact that President Truman ordered the dropping of an atomic bomb than to the decision of the Army Air Force to carry out his orders." He has also pointed to the difference between immediate, intermediate and distant causes. For his part, Christopher Lloyd puts forward four "general concepts of causation" used in history: the "metaphysical idealist concept, which asserts that the phenomena of the universe are products of or emanations from an omnipotent being or such final cause"; "the empiricist (or Humean) regularity concept, which is based on the idea of causation being a matter of constant conjunctions of events"; "the functional/teleological/consequential concept", which is "goal-directed, so that goals are causes"; and the "realist, structurist and dispositional approach, which sees relational structures and internal dispositions as the causes of phenomena". 
      There is disagreement about the extent to which history is ultimately deterministic. Some argue that geography, economic systems, or culture prescribe laws that determine the events of history. Others see history as a sequence of consequential processes that act upon each other. Even determinists do not rule out that, from time to time, certain cataclysmic events occur to change course of history. Their main point is, however, that such events are rare and that even apparently large shocks like wars and revolutions often have no more than temporary effects on the evolution of the society.  
      Philosophy of neutrality 
      The question of neutrality concerns itself foremost with analysis of historiography and the biases of historical sources. One prominent manifestation of this analysis is the idea that "history is written by the victors". This phrase appears to have been coined by George Graham Vest to explain the Lost Cause of the losing side of the American Civil War. 
      In his Society Must Be Defended, Michel Foucault posits that the victors of a social struggle use their political dominance to suppress a defeated adversary's version of historical events in favor of their own propaganda, which may go so far as historical negationism. Wolfgang Schivelbusch's Culture of Defeat takes an opposing approach that defeat is a major driver for the defeated to reinvent himself, while the victor, confirmed in his attitudes and methods, dissatisfied by the high losses and paltry gains made, may be less creative and fall back. 
      For G. W. F. Hegel, the history of the world is also the Last Judgement. Hegel adopts the expression "Die Weltgeschichte ist das Weltgericht" ("World history is a tribunal that judges the World"; a quote from Friedrich Schiller's poem Resignation published in 1786) and asserts that history is what judges men, their actions and their opinions. Since the twentieth century, Western historians have disavowed the aspiration to provide a judgement of history. The goals of historical judgements or interpretations are separate to those of legal judgements, that need to be formulated quickly after the events and be final. 
      Related to the issues of historical judgement are those of the pretension to neutrality and objectivity. Analytic and critical philosophers of history have debated whether historians should express judgements on historical figures, or if this would infringe on their supposed role. In general, positivists and neopositivists oppose any value-judgement as unscientific.  
      Operative theories 
      Teleological approaches 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Early teleological approaches to history can be found in theodicies, which attempted to reconcile the problem of evil with the existence of God—providing a global explanation of history with belief in a progressive directionality organized by a superior power, leading to an eschatological end, such as a Messianic Age or Apocalypse. However, this transcendent teleological approach can be thought as immanent to human history itself. Augustine of Hippo, Thomas Aquinas, Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet, in his 1679 Discourse On Universal History, and Gottfried Leibniz, who coined the term, formulated such philosophical theodicies. Leibniz based his explanation on the principle of sufficient reason, which states that anything that happens, does happen for a specific reason. Thus, if one adopts God's perspective, seemingly evil events in fact only take place in the larger divine plan. In this way theodicies explained the necessity of evil as a relative element that forms part of a larger plan of history. However, Leibniz's principles were not a gesture of fatalism. Confronted with the antique problem of future contingents, Leibniz developed the theory of compossible worlds, distinguishing two types of necessity, in response to the problem of determinism. 
      G. W. F. Hegel may represent the epitome of teleological philosophy of history. Hegel's teleology was taken up by Francis Fukuyama in his The End of History and the Last Man. Thinkers such as Nietzsche, Michel Foucault, Althusser, or Deleuze deny any teleological sense to history, claiming that it is best characterized by discontinuities, ruptures, and various time-scales, which the Annales School had demonstrated. 
      Schools of thought influenced by Hegel also see history as progressive, but they see progress as the outcome of a dialectic in which factors working in opposite directions are over time reconciled. History was best seen as directed by a Zeitgeist, and traces of the Zeitgeist could be seen by looking backward. Hegel believed that history was moving man toward civilization, and some also claim he thought that the Prussian state incarnated the end of history. In his Lessons on the History of Philosophy, he explains that each epochal philosophy is in a way the whole of philosophy; it is not a subdivision of the Whole but this Whole itself apprehended in a specific modality.  
      Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, philosopher of absolute idealism who developed a dialectic conception of history
        
       
       
      G. W. F. Hegel developed a complex theodicy in his 1807 Phenomenology of Spirit, which based its conception of history on dialectics. The negative was conceived by Hegel as the motor of history. Hegel argued that history is a constant process of dialectic clash, with each thesis encountering an opposing idea or event antithesis. The clash of both was "superated" in the synthesis, a conjunction that conserved the contradiction between thesis and its antithesis while sublating it. As Marx famously explained afterwards, concretely that meant that if Louis XVI's monarchic rule in France was seen as the thesis, the French Revolution could be seen as its antithesis. However, both were sublated in Napoleon, who reconciled the revolution with the Ancien Régime; he conserved the change. Hegel thought that reason accomplished itself, through this dialectical scheme, in History. Through labour, man transformed nature so he could recognize himself in it; he made it his "home." Thus, reason spiritualized nature. Roads, fields, fences, and all the modern infrastructure in which we live is the result of this spiritualization of nature. Hegel thus explained social progress as the result of the labour of reason in history. However, this dialectical reading of history involved, of course, contradiction, so history was also conceived of as constantly conflicting: Hegel theorized this in his famous dialectic of the lord and the bondsman. 
      According to Hegel,  
      
      
       One more word about giving instruction as to what the world ought to be. Philosophy in any case always comes on the scene too late to give it... When philosophy paints its gray in gray, then has a shape of life grown old. By philosophy's gray in gray it cannot be rejuvenated but only understood. The owl of Minerva spreads its wings only with the falling of the dusk.
       
      Thus, philosophy was to explain Geschichte (history) afterward. Philosophy is always late, it is only an interpretation of what is rational in the real—and, according to Hegel, only what is recognized as rational is real. This idealist understanding of philosophy as interpretation was famously challenged by Karl Marx's 11th thesis on Feuerbach (1845): "Philosophers have hitherto only interpreted the world in various ways; the point, however, is to change it."  
      Thomas Carlyle 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Thomas Carlyle, Scottish historian and philosopher of the great man theory
        
       
       
      After Hegel, who insisted on the role of great men in history, with his famous statement about Napoleon, "I saw the Spirit on his horse", Thomas Carlyle argued that history was the biography of a few central individuals, heroes, such as Oliver Cromwell or Frederick the Great, writing that "The history of the world is but the biography of great men." His view of heroes included not only political and military figures, the founders or topplers of states, but artists, poets, theologians and other cultural leaders. His history of great men, of geniuses good and evil, sought to organize change in the advent of greatness. 
      Explicit defenses of Carlyle's position have been rare since the late twentieth century. Most philosophers of history contend that the motive forces in history can best be described only with a wider lens than the one he used for his portraits. A.C. Danto, for example, wrote of the importance of the individual in history, but extended his definition to include social individuals, defined as "individuals we may provisionally characterize as containing individual human beings amongst their parts. Examples of social individuals might be social classes , national groups , religious organizations , large-scale events , large-scale social movements , etc." The great man theory of history was most popular with professional historians in the nineteenth century; a popular work of this school is the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (1911), which contains lengthy and detailed biographies about the great men of history. 
      After Marx's conception of a materialist history based on the class struggle, which raised attention for the first time to the importance of social factors such as economics in the unfolding of history, Herbert Spencer wrote "You must admit that the genesis of the great man depends on the long series of complex influences which has produced the race in which he appears, and the social state into which that race has slowly grown....Before he can remake his society, his society must make him."  
      Social evolutionism 
      
      
       Main article: Sociocultural evolutionism
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section may contain material unrelated or insufficiently related to the topic of the article. Please help improve this section or discuss this issue on the talk page. (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Inspired by the Enlightenment's ideal of progress, social evolutionism became a popular conception in the nineteenth century. Auguste Comte's (1798–1857) positivist conception of history, which he divided into the theological stage, the metaphysical stage and the positivist stage, brought upon by modern science, was one of the most influential doctrines of progress. The Whig interpretation of history, as it was later called, associated with scholars of the Victorian and Edwardian eras in Britain, such as Henry Maine or Thomas Macaulay, gives an example of such influence, by looking at human history as progress from savagery and ignorance toward peace, prosperity, and science. Maine described the direction of progress as "from status to contract," from a world in which a child's whole life is pre-determined by the circumstances of his birth, toward one of mobility and choice. 
      The publication of Darwin's The Origin of Species in 1859 introduced human evolution. However, it was quickly transposed from its original biological field to the social field, in social Darwinist theories. Herbert Spencer, who coined the term "survival of the fittest", or Lewis Henry Morgan in Ancient Society (1877) developed evolutionist theories independent from Darwin's works, which would be later interpreted as social Darwinism. These nineteenth-century unilineal evolution theories claimed that societies start out in a primitive state and gradually become more civilised over time, and equated the culture and technology of Western civilisation with progress. 
      Arthur Gobineau's An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races (1853–55) argued that race is the primary force determining world events, that there are intellectual differences between human races, and that civilizations decline and fall when the races are mixed. Gobineau's works had a large popularity in the so-called scientific racism theories that developed during the New Imperialism period. 
      After the first world war, and even before Herbert Butterfield (1900–1979) harshly criticized it, the Whig interpretation had gone out of style. The bloodletting of that conflict had indicted the whole notion of linear progress. Paul Valéry famously said: "We civilizations now know ourselves mortal." 
      However, the notion itself didn't completely disappear. The End of History and the Last Man (1992) by Francis Fukuyama proposed a similar notion of progress, positing that the worldwide adoption of liberal democracies as the single accredited political system and even modality of human consciousness would represent the "End of History". Fukuyama's work stems from a Kojevian reading of Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit (1807). 
      Unlike Maurice Godelier who interprets history as a process of transformation, Tim Ingold suggests that history is a movement of autopoiesis 
      A key component to making sense of all of this is to simply recognize that all these issues in social evolution merely serve to support the suggestion that how one considers the nature of history will impact the interpretation and conclusions drawn about history. The critical under-explored question is less about history as content and more about history as process. 
      In 2011 Steven Pinker wrote a history of violence and humanity from an evolutionary perspective in which he shows that violence has declined statistically over time.  
      Contextual theories 
      As early as the 18th century, philosophers began focusing on contextual factors contributing to the course of history. Historians of the Annales School, founded in 1929 by Lucien Febvre and Marc Bloch, were a major landmark in the shift from a history centered on individual subjects to studies concentrating in geography, economics, demography, and other social forces. Fernand Braudel's studies on the Mediterranean Sea as "hero" of history and Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie's history of climate were inspired by this school.  
      Karl Marx 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Karl Marx, founder of Marxism and historical materialism
        
       
       
      Karl Marx is often thought to be an exponent of economic determinism. For him social institutions like religion, culture and the political system were merely by-products of the underlying economic system. However, he did not see history as completely deterministic. His essay The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon contains the most famous formulation of Marx's view of the role of the individual in history:  
      
      
       Men make their own history, but they do not make it just as they please; they do not make it under circumstances chosen by themselves, but under given circumstances directly encountered and inherited from the past.
       
      Michel Foucault 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The historico-political discourse analyzed by Michel Foucault in Society Must Be Defended (1975–76) considers truth as the fragile product of a historical struggle, first conceptualized as race struggle—understood not in the modern sense of biological race but closer to that of a people or nation. Boulainvilliers, for example, was an exponent of nobility rights. He claimed that the French nobility were the racial descendants of the Franks who invaded France (while the Third Estate was descended from the conquered Gauls), and had right to power by virtue of right of conquest. He used this approach to formulate a historical thesis of the course of French political history—a critique of both the monarchy and the Third Estate. Foucault regards him as the founder of the historico-political discourse as political weapon. 
      In Great Britain, this historico-political discourse was used by the bourgeoisie, the people and the aristocracy as a means of struggle against the monarchy—cf. Edward Coke or John Lilburne. In France, Boulainvilliers, Nicolas Fréret, and then Sieyès, Augustin Thierry, and Cournot reappropriated this form of discourse. Finally, at the end of the nineteenth century, this discourse was incorporated by racialist biologists and eugenicists, who gave it the modern sense of race and, even more, transformed this popular discourse into a state racism in Nazism. Foucault also presents that Marxists too seized this discourse and took it in a different direction, transforming the essentialist notion of race into the historical notion of class struggle, defined by socially structured position. This displacement of discourse constitutes one of the bases of Foucault's thought—that discourse is not tied to the subject, rather the subject is a construction of discourse. Moreover, discourse is not the simple ideological and mirror reflexion of an economic infrastructure, but is a product and the battlefield of multiples forces—which may not be reduced to the simple dualist contradiction of two energies. 
      Foucault shows that what specifies this discourse from the juridical and philosophical discourse is its conception of truth—that truth is no longer absolute, it is the product of race struggle. History itself, which was traditionally the sovereign's science, the legend of his glorious feats and monument building, ultimately became the discourse of the people, thus a political stake. The subject is not any more a neutral arbitrator, judge, or legislator, as in Solon's or Kant's conceptions. Therefore, what became the historical subject must search in history's furor, under the "juridical code's dried blood", the multiple contingencies from which a fragile rationality temporarily finally emerged. This may be, perhaps, compared to the sophist discourse in Ancient Greece. Foucault warns that it has nothing to do with Machiavelli's or Hobbes's discourse on war, for to this popular discourse, the sovereign is nothing more than "an illusion, an instrument, or, at the best, an enemy. It is a discourse that beheads the king, anyway that dispenses itself from the sovereign and that denounces it".  
      Other approaches 
      Narrative history 
      A current popular conception considers the value of narrative in the writing and experience of history. Important thinkers in this area include Paul Ricœur, Louis Mink, W.B. Gallie, and Hayden White. Some have doubted this approach because it draws fictional and historical narrative closer together, and there remains a perceived "fundamental bifurcation between historical and fictional narrative" (Ricœur, vol. 1, 52). In spite of this, most modern historians, such as Barbara Tuchman or David McCullough, consider narrative writing important to their approaches. The theory of narrated history (or historicized narrative) holds that the structure of lived experience, and such experience narrated in both fictional and non-fictional works (literature and historiography) have in common the figuration of "temporal experience." In this way, narrative has a generously encompassing ability to "'grasp together' and integrate ... into one whole and complete story" the "composite representations" of historical experience (Ricœur x, 173). Louis Mink writes that, "the significance of past occurrences is understandable only as they are locatable in the ensemble of interrelationships that can be grasped only in the construction of narrative form" (148). Marxist theorist Fredric Jameson also analyzes historical understanding this way, and writes that "history is inaccessible to us except in textual form ... it can be approached only by way of prior (re)textualization" (82).  
      Education and propaganda 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This section contains information of unclear or questionable importance or relevance to the article's subject matter. Please help improve this section by clarifying or removing indiscriminate details. If importance cannot be established, the section is likely to be moved to another article, pseudo-redirected, or removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Philosophy of history"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (May 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       See also: Philosophy of education and Pedagogy
       
      Since Plato's Republic, civic education and instruction has had a central role in politics and the constitution of a common identity. History has thus sometimes become the target of propaganda, for example in historical revisionist attempts. Plato's insistence on the importance of education was relayed by Rousseau's Emile: Or, On Education (1762), a counterpart to The Social Contract (1762). Public education has been seen by republican regimes and the Enlightenment as a prerequisite of the masses' progressive emancipation, as conceived by Kant in Was Ist Aufklärung? (What Is Enlightenment?, 1784). 
      The creation of modern education systems, instrumental in the construction of nation states, also passed by the elaboration of a common, national history. History textbooks are one of the many ways through which this common history was transmitted. Le Tour de France par deux enfants, for example, was the French Third Republic's classic textbook for elementary school: it described the story of two French children who, following the German annexation of the Alsace-Lorraine region in 1870, go on a tour de France during which they become aware of France's diversity and the existence of the various patois.  
      See also 
      
       Historical significance 
       Historic recurrence 
       Historiography 
       Historiosophy 
       Journal of the Philosophy of History 
       Philosophy of time 
       Political philosophy 
       Social philosophy 
       Teleology 
       Teleonomy 
       Truth 
       Victor's justice
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ See, for example, the biography of Attila the Hun of the Migrations Period.  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Voltaire, La philosophie de l'histoire, Changuion, 1765.  
        ^ The Continuing Relevance of Speculative Philosophy of History, Journal of the Philosophy of History  
        ^ Philosophy of History, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy  
        ^ E.g. W. H. Walsh, Introduction to the Philosophy of History (1951) ch. 1 p. 2.  
        ^ Rolf Gruner, "The concept of speculative philosophy of history," Metaphilosophy 3(4).  
        ^ a b H. Mowlana (2001). "Information in the Arab World", Cooperation South Journal 1.  
        ^  Compare: Ibn Khaldun (1958). "Introduction by N. J. Dawood". The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History in Three Volumes. Princeton/Bollingen paperbacks. Vol.&nbsp;1. Translated by Franz Rosenthal; compiled by N. J. Dawood (abridged, illustrated, reprint, revised&nbsp;ed.). Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;x. ISBN&nbsp;9780691017549. Retrieved 2016-06-18. In rejecting idle superstition and denouncing uncritical acceptance of historical data, Ibn Khaldun adopted a scientific method totally new to his age, and used a new terminology to drive home his ideas. That he was fully aware of the originality of his thinking and the uniqueness of his contribution is illustrated by the many references he makes to his 'new science'.  
        ^  Compare Oswald Spengler and History as Destiny, page 93: " the closing years of the First World War, when Spengler was completing his work, had witnessed the passing of the feudal rule of landed aristocracy in Germany and its merging into budding forms of parliamentary plutocracy - soon to be followed by the rise of 'mobocracy' and then Caesarism."  
        ^ Hewitson, M. (2014) History and Causality, 127-48.  
        ^ Danto, A. (1968) Analytical Philosophy of History, 233.  
        ^ Danto, A. (1968) Analytical Philosophy of History, 249.  
        ^ Hewitson, M. (2014) History and Causality, 86-116.  
        ^ Gaddis, J. L. (2002) The Landscape of History: How Historians Map the Past, 64.  
        ^ Lloyd, C. (1993) Structures of History, 159.  
        ^ 
          Humanities, National Endowment for the (August 27, 1891). "Abilene weekly reflector. (Abilene, Kan.) 1888-1935, August 27, 1891, Image 1" – via chroniclingamerica.loc.gov.  
        ^ Janez Juhant, Bojan Žalec (eds.), Reconciliation: The Way of Healing and Growth, LIT Verlag Münster, 2012, p. 98.  
        ^ Curran, Vivian Grosswald (2000) Herder and the Holocaust: A Debate About Difference and Determinism in the Context of Comparative Law in F. C. DeCoste, Bernard Schwartz (eds.) Holocaust's Ghost: Writings on Art, Politics, Law and Education pp.413-5  
        ^ a b c Parkinson, G.H.R An Encyclopedia of Philosophy pp.800, 807, 820  
        ^ Curran, Vivian Grosswald (2000) Herder and the Holocaust: A Debate About Difference and Determinism in the Context of Comparative Law in F. C. DeCoste, Bernard Schwartz (eds.) Holocaust's Ghost: Writings on Art, Politics, Law and Education p.415  
        ^ Rubinoff, Lionel History, Philosophy and Historiography: Philosophy and the Critique of Historical Thinking, in William Sweet The Philosophy of History: A Re-Examination, Chapter 9 p.171  
        ^ Andrew Holland Access to History: Russia and its Rulers 1855-1964 (OCR): Historical Themes p.7  
        ^ Hegel, Philosophy of Right (1820), "Preface" See for a discussion Hegel's conception of reason accomplishing itself through a dialectical scheme. Charles Edward Andrew Lincoln IV, Hegelian Dialectical Analysis of U.S. Voting Laws, 42 U. Dayton L. Rev. 87 (2017). See Lincoln, Charles The Dialectical Path of Law, 2021 Rowman &amp; Littlefield.  
        ^ Danto, "The Historical Individual", 266, in Philosophical Analysis and History, edited by Williman H. Dray, Rainbow-Bridge Book Co., 1966  
        ^ Ingold, T. On the Distinction between Evolution and History. Social Evolution &amp; History,. Vol. 1, num. 1. 2002. Pp. 5-24. P. 9, socionauki.ru  
        ^ " The better angels of our nature, a history of violence and humanity ", by Steven Pinker, published 2012 by Penguin books 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-0-141-03464-5  
        ^ Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo. Under the Thumb of History? Political institutions and the Scope for Action  
        ^ 
          "The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte". marx2mao.com.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Berkhofer, Robert F. Beyond the great story: history as text and discourse. (Harvard University Press, 1995) 
       Berlin, Isaiah. Three critics of the Enlightenment: Vico, Hamann, Herder, (2000) 
       Rose, Elizabeta "The Philosophy of History" Writings of the Contemporary World (2011) 
       Carr, Edward Hallett, "What is History?" (1961) 
       Collingwood, R. G. The idea of history. (1946) 
       Danto, Arthur Coleman. Analytical philosophy of history (1965) 
       Doran, Robert. ed. Philosophy of History After Hayden White. London: Bloomsbury, 2013. 
       Dilthey, Wilhelm. Introduction to the human sciences ed. by R. A. Makkreel and F. Rodi. (1883; 1989) 
       Engels, David. ed. Von Platon bis Fukuyama. Biologistische und zyklische Konzepte in der Geschichtsphilosophie der Antike und des Abendlandes, Brussels: Latomus, 2015. 
       Rickert, Heinrich, Die Probleme der Geschichtsphilosophie. Eine Einführung, Tübingen 1924, new ed.: Celtis Verlag, Berlin 2013, 
         ISBN&nbsp;978-3-944253-01-5 
       Gardiner, Patrick L. The nature of historical explanation. (1952) 
       Gardiner, Patrick L. ed. The philosophy of history, Oxford readings in philosophy. (1974) 
       Hewitson, Mark, History and Causality (Palgrave Macmillan, 2014) 
       Lloyd, Christopher The Structures of History (Oxford: Blackwell, 1993) 
       Mandelbaum, Maurice, The Anatomy of Historical Knowledge (Johns Hopkins, 1977) 
       Mink, Louis O. "Narrative form as a cognitive instrument." in The writing of history: Literary form and historical understanding, Robert H. Canary and Henry Kozicki, eds. Madison, Wisconsin: The University of Wisconsin Press, 1978. 
       Ricoeur, Paul. Time and Narrative, Volume 1 and 2, University Of Chicago Press, 1990. 
       Ricoeur, Paul. History and Truth. Translated by Kathleen McLaughlin and David Pellauer. Chicago and London: U of Chicago P, 1983. 
       Jameson, Frederic. The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Symbolic Act, Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1981. 
       Muller, Herbert J. The Uses of the Past, New York, New York: Oxford University Press, 1952. 
       Schumann, G. Explanation in Action Theory and Historiography: Causal and Teleological Approaches. 2019. 
       Walsh, W.H. An Introduction to Philosophy of History. 1951. 
       White, Hayden V. Metahistory: The Historical Imagination in Nineteenth-Century Europe. (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1973). 
       White, Hayden V. The Fiction of Narrative: Essays on History, Literature, and Theory, 1957-2007. (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2010). Ed. Robert Doran. 
       Gisi, Lucas Marco: Einbildungskraft und Mythologie. Die Verschränkung von Anthropologie und Geschichte im 18. Jahrhundert, Berlin, New York: de Gruyter, 2007. 
       Vassallo, Christian: Rolling Sisyphus' Stone Uphill? Plato's Philosophy of History and Progress Reappraised, The Journal of Hellenic Studies 141, 2021, pp. 179-196.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Philosophy of history.
         
       
       
      
       An Introduction to the Philosophy of History by Paul Newall, aimed at beginners. 
       Anthony K. Jensen, Philosophy of History, Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       Centre for Philosophical Studies of History at the University of Oulu, Finland 
       Daniel Little, Philosophy of History, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy 
       The Explanation of Action in History by Constantine Sandis, Essays in Philosophy, Vol. 7, No. 2, June 2006. 
       Web Portal on Philosophy of History, Historiography and Historical Culture 
       
        Münsterberg, Hugo (1920). "History, Logic of"&nbsp;. Encyclopedia Americana. 
       The International Network for Theory of History 
       We are history: the outlines of a quasi-substantive philosophy of history Zoltán Boldizsár Simon, Rethinking History, Vol. 20, No. 2, 2016
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Philosophy
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Branches
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Traditional
                  
                    
                    
                     Axiology 
                      
                       Aesthetics 
                       Ethics
                       
                     Epistemology 
                     Logic 
                     Metaphysics 
                      
                       Ontology
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of...
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Art 
                      
                       Design 
                       Music 
                       Film
                       
                     Color 
                     Cosmology 
                     Culture 
                     Education 
                     Environment 
                     Geography 
                     History 
                     Human nature 
                     Feminism 
                     Language 
                     Law 
                     Life 
                     Literature 
                     Logic 
                     Mathematics 
                     Medicine 
                      
                       Healthcare 
                       Psychiatry
                       
                     Mind 
                      
                       Pain 
                       Happiness 
                       Humor 
                       Psychology
                       
                     Perception 
                     Philosophy 
                     Religion 
                     Science 
                      
                       Physics 
                       Chemistry 
                       Biology
                       
                     Sexuality 
                     Social science 
                      
                       Business 
                       Economics 
                       Politics 
                       Society
                       
                     Space and time 
                     Sport 
                     Technology 
                      
                       Artificial intelligence 
                       Computer science 
                       Engineering 
                       Information
                       
                     War
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Schools of thought
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By era
                  
                    
                    
                     Ancient 
                     Western 
                      
                       Medieval 
                       Renaissance 
                       Early modern 
                       Modern 
                       Contemporary
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ancient
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Chinese
                      
                        
                        
                         Agriculturalism 
                         Confucianism 
                         Legalism 
                         Logicians 
                         Mohism 
                         Chinese naturalism 
                         Neotaoism 
                         Taoism 
                         Yangism 
                         Chan
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Greco-Roman 
                      
                        
                        
                         Aristotelianism 
                         Atomism 
                         Cynicism 
                         Cyrenaics 
                         Eleatics 
                         Eretrian school 
                         Epicureanism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Ionian 
                          
                           Ephesian 
                           Milesian
                           
                         Megarian school 
                         Neoplatonism 
                         Peripatetic 
                         Platonism 
                         Pluralism 
                         Presocratic 
                         Pyrrhonism 
                         Pythagoreanism 
                         Neopythagoreanism 
                         Sophistic 
                         Stoicism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Hindu 
                         Samkhya 
                         Nyaya 
                         Vaisheshika 
                         Yoga 
                         Mīmāṃsā 
                         Ājīvika 
                         Ajñana 
                         Cārvāka 
                         Jain 
                          
                           Anekantavada 
                           Syādvāda
                           
                         Buddhist 
                          
                           Śūnyatā 
                           Madhyamaka 
                           Yogacara 
                           Sautrāntika 
                           Svatantrika
                          
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Persian
                      
                        
                        
                         Mazdakism 
                         Mithraism 
                         Zoroastrianism 
                         Zurvanism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Medieval
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      European
                      
                        
                        
                         Christian 
                          Augustinianism 
                         Scholasticism 
                         Thomism 
                         Scotism 
                         Occamism 
                         Renaissance humanism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      East Asian
                      
                        
                        
                         Korean Confucianism 
                         Edo neo-Confucianism 
                         Neo-Confucianism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Indian
                      
                        
                        
                         Vedanta 
                          
                           Acintya bheda abheda 
                           Advaita 
                           Bhedabheda 
                           Dvaita 
                           Nimbarka Sampradaya 
                           Shuddhadvaita 
                           Vishishtadvaita
                           
                         Navya-Nyāya
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Islamic
                      
                        
                        
                         Averroism 
                         Avicennism 
                         Illuminationism 
                         ʿIlm al-Kalām 
                         Sufi
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Jewish
                      
                        
                        
                         Judeo-Islamic
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Modern
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      People
                      
                        
                        
                         Cartesianism 
                         Kantianism 
                          
                           Neo
                           
                         Kierkegaardianism 
                         Krausism 
                         Hegelianism 
                         Marxism 
                         Newtonianism 
                         Nietzscheanism 
                         Spinozism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      0
                      
                        
                        
                         Anarchism 
                         Classical Realism 
                         Liberalism 
                         Collectivism 
                         Conservatism 
                         Determinism 
                         Dualism 
                         Empiricism 
                         Existentialism 
                         Foundationalism 
                         Historicism 
                         Holism 
                         Humanism 
                          
                           Anti-
                           
                         Idealism 
                          
                           Absolute 
                           British 
                           German 
                           Objective 
                           Subjective 
                           Transcendental
                           
                         Individualism 
                         Kokugaku 
                         Materialism 
                         Modernism 
                         Monism 
                         Naturalism 
                         Natural law 
                         Nihilism 
                         New Confucianism 
                         Neo-scholasticism 
                         Pragmatism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Positivism 
                         Reductionism 
                         Rationalism 
                         Social contract 
                         Socialism 
                         Transcendentalism 
                         Utilitarianism
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Contemporary
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      Analytic
                      
                        
                        
                         Applied ethics 
                         Analytic feminism 
                         Analytical Marxism 
                         Communitarianism 
                         Consequentialism 
                         Critical rationalism 
                         Experimental philosophy 
                         Falsificationism 
                         Foundationalism&nbsp;/ Coherentism 
                         Internalism and externalism 
                         Logical positivism 
                         Legal positivism 
                         Normative ethics 
                         Meta-ethics 
                         Moral realism 
                         Quinean naturalism 
                         Ordinary language philosophy 
                         Postanalytic philosophy 
                         Quietism 
                         Rawlsian 
                         Reformed epistemology 
                         Systemics 
                         Scientism 
                         Scientific realism 
                         Scientific skepticism 
                         Transactionalism 
                         Contemporary utilitarianism 
                         Vienna Circle 
                         Wittgensteinian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Continental
                      
                        
                        
                         Critical theory 
                         Deconstruction 
                         Existentialism 
                         Feminist 
                         Frankfurt School 
                         New Historicism 
                         Hermeneutics 
                         Neo-Marxism 
                         Phenomenology 
                         Posthumanism 
                         Postmodernism 
                         Post-structuralism 
                         Social constructionism 
                         Structuralism 
                         Western Marxism
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Other
                      
                        
                        
                         Kyoto School 
                         Objectivism 
                         Postcritique 
                         Russian cosmism 
                         more...
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Positions
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Aesthetics
                  
                    
                    
                     Formalism 
                     Institutionalism 
                     Aesthetic response
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ethics
                  
                    
                    
                     Consequentialism 
                     Deontology 
                     Virtue
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Free will
                  
                    
                    
                     Compatibilism 
                     Determinism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Incompatibilism 
                      
                       Hard
                       
                     Libertarianism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Metaphysics
                  
                    
                    
                     Atomism 
                     Dualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Monism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Epistemology
                  
                    
                    
                     Empiricism 
                     Fideism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Particularism 
                     Rationalism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Solipsism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Mind
                  
                    
                    
                     Behaviorism 
                     Emergentism 
                     Eliminativism 
                     Epiphenomenalism 
                     Functionalism 
                     Objectivism 
                     Subjectivism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Normativity
                  
                    
                    
                     Absolutism 
                     Particularism 
                     Relativism 
                     Nihilism 
                     Skepticism 
                     Universalism
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Ontology
                  
                    
                    
                     Action 
                     Event 
                     Process
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Reality
                  
                    
                    
                     Anti-realism 
                     Conceptualism 
                     Idealism 
                     Materialism 
                     Naturalism 
                     Nominalism 
                     Physicalism 
                     Realism
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  Related lists
                  Miscellaneous
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  By region
                  
                   
                   
                    
                     
                      African
                      
                        
                        
                         Bantu 
                         Egyptian 
                         Ethiopian
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Chinese 
                         Indian 
                         Indonesian 
                         Japanese 
                         Korean 
                         Taiwanese 
                         Pakistani 
                         Vietnamese
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Middle Eastern
                      
                        
                        
                         Iranian 
                         Jewish 
                         Turkish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Western
                      
                        
                        
                         American 
                         Australian 
                         British 
                          
                           Scottish
                           
                         Canada 
                         Czech 
                         Danish 
                         Dutch 
                         French 
                         German 
                         Greek 
                         Italian 
                         Maltese 
                         Polish 
                         Slovene 
                         Spanish
                         
                       
                     
                     
                      Miscellaneous
                      
                        
                        
                         Amerindian 
                         Aztec 
                         Yugoslav 
                         Romanian 
                         Russian
                         
                       
                     
                    
                   
                   
                 
                 
                  Lists
                  
                    
                    
                     Outline 
                     Index 
                     Years 
                     Problems 
                     Schools 
                     Glossary 
                     Philosophers 
                     Movements 
                     Publications
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                    
                    
                     Natural law 
                     Sage 
                     Theoretical philosophy&nbsp;/ Practical philosophy 
                     Women in philosophy
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portal 
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Theories of history
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Annales 
             Conceptual 
             Cultural 
             Economic 
             Environmental 
             Gender 
             Historicism
             
            
             Marxist 
             Macrohistory 
             Microhistory 
             Postcolonial 
             Politics 
             Postmodern 
             Psychohistory 
             Social
             
            
             List of historians 
             History 
             Big History
             
           
         
         
          
           
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Historiography
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Historical method 
                   History 
                   Big History 
                   history 
                   theories of history 
                   historiography 
                   historians
                   
                 
               
               
                Historical sources
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Types
                    
                      
                      
                       Primary sources 
                       Secondary sources 
                       Tertiary sources
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Sources
                    
                      
                      
                       Archives 
                       Artifact 
                       Archaeological site 
                       Codices 
                       Deeds 
                       Facsimiles 
                       Feature 
                       Hieroglyphs 
                       Historical documents 
                       Manuscripts 
                       Papyri 
                       Religious texts 
                       Scrolls
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                Organizations, institutes
                
                  
                  
                   Historical society 
                   Historiographical Institute of the University of Tokyo
                   
                 
               
               
                Concepts (choice)
                
                  
                  
                   Battle for Australia 
                   Pax Sinica 
                   Political midlife crisis 
                   Renaissance 
                   Translatio imperii
                   
                 
               
               
                Methodology,schools (choice)
                
                  
                  
                   Annales school 
                    
                     History of mentalities 
                     Nouvelle histoire
                     
                   Case study 
                   Change and continuity 
                   Historical linguistics 
                   Great Man theory 
                    
                     Heroic theory of invention and scientific development
                     
                   Historic recurrence 
                   Historical anthropology 
                   Historical determinism 
                   Historical realism 
                   Historicism 
                   Historiometry 
                    
                     Cliometrics
                     
                   Historism 
                   Marxist historiography 
                    
                     Historical materialism
                     
                   Microhistory 
                   Codicology 
                   Palaeography 
                   Intellectual history 
                    
                     Idea of Progress 
                     History of modernisation theory
                     
                   Historical criticism 
                   Historical geography 
                    
                     Historical geographic information system
                     
                   Historical sociology
                   
                 
               
               
                By country
                
                  
                  
                   Albania 
                   Argentina 
                   Canada 
                   China 
                   Ethiopia 
                   Germany 
                   Hellenic 
                   Islam 
                   Japan 
                   Rome 
                   North Macedonia 
                   Serbia 
                   Soviet Union 
                   United Kingdom 
                   United States 
                   Scotland 
                   Switzerland 
                   Turkey
                   
                 
               
               
                Others
                
                  
                  
                   Historiography of science 
                   Historiography of the salon 
                   Historiography of the May Revolution 
                   Historiography of World War II 
                    
                     Functionalism–intentionalism debate
                     
                   Historiography of early Islam
                   
                 
               
               
                Related
                
                  
                  
                   Historical fiction 
                   Historical revisionism 
                   Historical negationism 
                   Historiography and nationalism 
                   Historical marker 
                   List of historians
                   
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social and political philosophy
           
         
         
          Ancient
          
            
            
             Aristotle 
             Augustine 
             Chanakya 
             Cicero 
             Confucius 
             Han Fei 
             Lactantius 
             Laozi 
             Mencius 
             Mozi 
             Origen 
             Philo 
             Plato 
             Plutarch 
             Polybius 
             Shang 
             Sun Tzu 
             Tertullian 
             Thucydides 
             Valluvar 
             Xenophon 
             Xunzi
             
           
         
         
          Medieval
          
            
            
             Alpharabius 
             Aquinas 
             Avempace 
             Averroes 
             Baldus 
             Bartolus 
             Bruni 
             Dante 
             Gelasius 
             al-Ghazali 
             Giles 
             Gratian 
             Gregory 
             Ibn Khaldun 
             John of Salisbury 
             Latini 
             Maimonides 
             Marsilius 
             Muhammad 
             Nizam al-Mulk 
             Ockham 
             Photios 
             Ibn Tufail 
             Wang
             
           
         
         
          Early modern
          
            
            
             Beza 
             Boétie 
             Bodin 
             Bossuet 
             Buchanan 
             Calvin 
             Duplessis-Mornay 
             Erasmus 
             Filmer 
             Grotius 
             Guicciardini 
             Harrington 
             Hayashi 
             Hobbes 
             Hotman 
             James 
             Leibniz 
             Locke 
             Luther 
             Machiavelli 
             Malebranche 
             Milton 
             Montaigne 
             More 
             Müntzer 
             Pufendorf 
             Sidney 
             Spinoza 
             Suárez
             
           
         
         
          18th–19th-century
          
            
            
             Bakunin 
             Bastiat 
             Bentham 
             Bolingbroke 
             Bonald 
             Burke 
             Comte 
             Condorcet 
             Constant 
             Cortés 
             Emerson 
             Engels 
             Fichte 
             Fourier 
             Franklin 
             Godwin 
             Hamann 
             Hegel 
             Herder 
             Hume 
             Jefferson 
             Kant 
              
               political philosophy
               
             Kierkegaard 
             Le Bon 
             Le Play 
             Madison 
             Maistre 
             Marx 
             Mazzini 
             Mill 
             Montesquieu 
             Nietzsche 
             Novalis 
             Paine 
             Renan 
             Rousseau 
             Royce 
             Sade 
             Schiller 
             Smith 
             Spencer 
             Spooner 
             de Staël 
             Stirner 
             Taine 
             Thoreau 
             Tocqueville 
             Vico 
             Vivekananda 
             Voltaire
             
           
         
         
          20th–21st-century
          
            
            
             Adorno 
             Ambedkar 
             Arendt 
             Aurobindo 
             Aron 
             Badiou 
             Baudrillard 
             Bauman 
             Benoist 
             Berlin 
             Bernstein 
             Butler 
             Camus 
             Chomsky 
             de Beauvoir 
             Debord 
             Deleuze 
             Dewey 
             Dmowski 
             Du Bois 
             Durkheim 
             Dworkin 
             Evola 
             Foucault 
             Fromm 
             Gandhi 
             Gehlen 
             Gentile 
             Gramsci 
             Guénon 
             Habermas 
             Hayek 
             Heidegger 
             Irigaray 
             Kautsky 
             Kirk 
             Kropotkin 
             Laclau 
             Lenin 
             Luxemburg 
             MacIntyre 
             Mansfield 
             Mao 
             Marcuse 
             Maritain 
             Maurras 
             Michels 
             Mises 
             Mouffe 
             Negri 
             Niebuhr 
             Nozick 
             Nursî 
             Oakeshott 
             Ortega 
             Pareto 
             Polanyi 
             Popper 
             Qutb 
             Radhakrishnan 
             Rand 
             Rawls 
             Röpke 
             Rothbard 
             Russell 
             Santayana 
             Sarkar 
             Sartre 
             Schmitt 
             Scruton 
             Searle 
             Shariati 
             Simmel 
             Skinner 
             Sombart 
             Sorel 
             Spann 
             Strauss 
             Sun 
             Taylor 
             Tucker 
             Voegelin 
             Walzer 
             Weber 
             Weil 
             Žižek
             
           
         
         
          Social theories
          
            
            
             Anarchism 
             Authoritarianism 
             Collectivism 
             Communism 
             Communitarianism 
             Conflict theories 
             Confucianism 
             Consensus theory 
             Conservatism 
             Contractualism 
             Cosmopolitanism 
             Culturalism 
             Elitism 
             Fascism 
             Feminist political theory 
             Gandhism 
             Hindu nationalism (Hindutva) 
             Individualism 
             Islam 
              
               Islamism
               
             Legalism 
             Liberalism 
             Libertarianism 
             Mohism 
             National liberalism 
             Republicanism 
             Social constructionism 
             Social constructivism 
             Social Darwinism 
             Social determinism 
             Socialism 
             Utilitarianism
             
           
         
         
          Related articles
          
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Critique of work 
             Jurisprudence 
             Philosophy and economics 
             Philosophy of education 
             Philosophy of history 
             Philosophy of love 
             Philosophy of social science 
             Political ethics 
             Social epistemology 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         History
        
        
         Philosophy
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Philosophy_of_history&amp;oldid=1069523753"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Philosophy of history
       Historiography
       Philosophy of social science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles to be expanded from August 2021
       All articles to be expanded
       Articles needing translation from Portuguese Wikipedia
       Wikipedia articles lacking focus from November 2019
       All Wikipedia articles lacking focus
       Articles needing additional references from November 2019
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       All pages needing factual verification
       Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from November 2019
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2016
       All Wikipedia articles needing words, phrases or quotes attributed
       Wikipedia articles needing words, phrases or quotes attributed from November 2019
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from May 2020
       Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2018
       Articles with unsourced statements from February 2016
       Articles with unsourced statements from July 2018
       Articles needing additional references from January 2020
       All articles with minor POV problems
       Articles with minor POV problems from November 2019
       Articles containing German-language text
       Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic sections from November 2019
       All articles that may have off-topic sections
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       Беларуская
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Қазақша
       Latina
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 February 2022, at 18:44&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
