
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  Town of Franklin - History of the Franklin Public Library 
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
 
 
   
   
   
   
    
     
        
      
    
     
      
        
       
       
       
        
        
        
         
        
        
         46 captures 
         
          16 Sep 2008 - 11 Aug 2016
          
         
          
           
            
            
         
        
       
       
        
          
          
          Sep 
          JUL 
          Oct 
           
          
           
          24 
           
           
          
          2008 
          2011 
          2013 
          
         
        
       
       
         
         
          success
          
         
          fail
                    
        
                
        
         About this capture 
        
       
      
      
       
       
        COLLECTED BY
        
        
          Organization: Internet Archive 
          
           The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. 
          
         
          
         
          Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks May 2011
          
          
           Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started May, 2011. These files are currently not publicly accessible. 
          
         
        
       
       
       
        TIMESTAMPS
        
        
         
        
         
         
        
       
     
    
   
  
  
   The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20110724122448/http://franklinma.virtualtownhall.net/Pages/FranklinMA_Library/libraryhistory
   
   
  
   
    Your browser either does not support JavaScript or you have JavaScript disabled. Please enable JavaScript or view this page in Text Version.
   
  Skip Navigation   
    
    
    
      
       
      
      
       
       
       
       
       
      
    
     
   
    
     
      This table is used for column layout.
     
    
       
     
          
        
         
        
          
                  
           
        
        
        
         
         
        
         
          About Franklin
          Departments
           
            Administration
            Board of Assessors
            Board of Health
            Building / Inspections / Zoning
            Conservation
            Fire Department
            Franklin Public Library
            Planning &amp; Community Development
            Police Department
            Public Schools
            Public Works
            Recreation
            Senior Center/COA
            Town Clerk
            Treasurer/Collector
            Veteran's Services
            more....
           
          Boards &amp; Committees
          Government
           
            Town Council
            Town Code
            Town Charter
            Government Officials
           
          Community News
          Connect CTY
          Contact Us
          Subscribe to News
          Meeting Videos
           
            Watch Live and Archived Town Meetings
           
          Pay Bills Online
         
        
              
       
        Employee Email Access
        
         Mission Statement
        
        Disclaimer
         
       
        Virtual Town Hall Website
         
      &nbsp;
       
       
         History of the Franklin Public Library 
        
       
        Printer-Friendly Version
        
        
        
          
           
          
          
           
          
           
            The Franklin Public Library is considered America's first public library. In 1778, when the town was incorporated, the designated name Exeter was changed to Franklin in honor of Dr. Benjamin Franklin. In return Franklin was asked to donate a bell for the town's church steeple. Acknowledging that "sense" was preferable to "sound", Dr. Franklin responded with an offer of books for the use of the town's residents. When the volumes arrived, a great controversy arose over who should be allowed to use them. On November 20th, 1790, those attending Franklin's town meeting voted to lend the books to all Franklin inhabitants free of charge. This vote established the Franklin collection as the first public library in the United States. The original Franklin collection is still housed in a book case in the library's Reading Gallery.
             
           
            In 1904, the Ray Memorial Building was dedicated and the Franklin Library got a permanent building - a gift from the Ray family. That same year, the Ray family also established the Ray Memorial fund to provide for and maintain the building. 
             
           
            The Franklin Library Association ran the library until 1981 when the Franklin Public Library became a department of the town of Franklin. From 1987 to 1989, the Library underwent extensive restoration to maintain the original beauty and splendor of this beautiful classical Greek structure and to add a children's wing. 
             
           
            In 1990, &nbsp;commemorate the library's bicentennial, the Franklin Public Library Bicentnnial Commission published a short history of the library, "A History of America's First Public Library at Franklin Massachusetts, 1790 ~ 1990" written by John Peters and Nina C. Santoro. &nbsp;Click on the image below to read and enjoy.
             
           
            
            
           
            Searching for your Ancestors? &nbsp;Here is a link to a digital copy of "The Record of Births Marriages and Deaths in the Town of Franklin from 1778-1872" 
             
           
         
          
           
          
        
           
      &nbsp;
     
    
      
        
 
