
 
  
   
  Urban planning - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Urban planning 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Technical and political process concerned with the use of land and design of the urban environment
       
      
      
       "Urban development" redirects here. For actual development, see urbanization. For negative effects, see urban sprawl.
       
      
      
       "Development planning" redirects here. For proposals setting out a local authority's policies and proposals for land use, see Development plan. For planning for personal development, see Personal development planning.
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Partizánske in Slovakia – an example of a typical planned European industrial city founded in 1938 together with a shoemaking factory in which practically all adult inhabitants of the city were employed.
        
       
       
      Urban planning, also known as regional planning, town planning, city planning, or rural planning, is a technical and political process that is focused on the development and design of land use and the built environment, including air, water, and the infrastructure passing into and out of urban areas, such as transportation, communications, and distribution networks and their accessibility. Traditionally, urban planning followed a top-down approach in master planning the physical layout of human settlements. The primary concern was the public welfare, which included considerations of efficiency, sanitation, protection and use of the environment, as well as effects of the master plans on the social and economic activities. Over time, urban planning has adopted a focus on the social and environmental bottom-lines that focus on planning as a tool to improve the health and well-being of people while maintaining sustainability standards. Sustainable development was added as one of the main goals of all planning endeavors in the late 20th century when the detrimental economic and the environmental impacts of the previous models of planning had become apparent. Similarly, in the early 21st century, Jane Jacob's writings on legal and political perspectives to emphasize the interests of residents, businesses and communities effectively influenced urban planners to take into broader consideration of resident experiences and needs while planning. 
      Urban planning answers questions about how people will live, work and play in a given area and thus, guides orderly development in urban, suburban and rural areas. Although predominantly concerned with the planning of settlements and communities, urban planners are also responsible for planning the efficient transportation of goods, resources, people and waste; the distribution of basic necessities such as water and electricity; a sense of inclusion and opportunity for people of all kinds, culture and needs; economic growth or business development; improving health and conserving areas of natural environmental significance that actively contributes to reduction in CO2 emissions as well as protecting heritage structures and built environments. Urban planning is a dynamic field since the questions around how people live, work and play changes with time. These changes are constantly reflected in planning methodologies, zonal codes and policies making it a highly technical, political, social, economical and environmental field. 
      Urban planning is an interdisciplinary field that includes civil engineering, architecture, human geography, politics, social science and design sciences. Practitioners of urban planning are concerned with research and analysis, strategic thinking, Engineering architecture, urban design, public consultation, policy recommendations, implementation and management. It is closely related to the field of urban design and some urban planners provide designs for streets, parks, buildings and other urban areas. Urban planners work with the cognate fields of civil engineering, landscape architecture, architecture, and public administration to achieve strategic, policy and sustainability goals. Early urban planners were often members of these cognate fields though today, urban planning is a separate, independent professional discipline. The discipline of urban planning is the broader category that includes different sub-fields such as land-use planning, zoning, economic development, environmental planning, and transportation planning. Creating the plans requires a thorough understanding of penal codes and zonal codes of planning. 
      Another important aspect of urban planning is that the range of urban planning projects include the large-scale master planning of empty sites or Greenfield projects as well as small-scale interventions and refurbishments of existing structures, buildings and public spaces. Pierre Charles L'Enfant in Washington DC, Daniel Burnham in Chicago and Georges-Eugene Haussmann in Paris planned cities from scratch, and Robert Moses and Le Corbusier refurbished and transformed cities and neighbourhoods to meet their ideas of urban planning.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 21st century practices 
        3 Theories 
        4 Technical aspects 
        5 Urban planners 
        6 Criticisms and debates in urban planning 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
          
          10.1 Library guides for urban planning 
           
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Further information: History of urban planning
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         1852 city plan of Pori by G.T. von Chiewitz
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Berlin - Siegessäule. August 1963. Spacious and organized city planning in Germany was official government policy dating back to Nazi rule.
        
       
       
      There is evidence of urban planning and designed communities dating back to the Mesopotamian, Indus Valley, Minoan, and Egyptian civilizations in the third millennium BCE. Archaeologists studying the ruins of cities in these areas find paved streets that were laid out at right angles in a grid pattern. The idea of a planned out urban area evolved as different civilizations adopted it. Beginning in the 8th century BCE, Greek city states were primarily centered on orthogonal (or grid-like) plans. The ancient Romans, inspired by the Greeks, also used orthogonal plans for their cities. City planning in the Roman world was developed for military defense and public convenience. The spread of the Roman Empire subsequently spread the ideas of urban planning. As the Roman Empire declined, these ideas slowly disappeared. However, many cities in Europe still held onto the planned Roman city center. Cities in Europe from the 9th to 14th centuries, often grew organically and sometimes chaotically. But in the following centuries with the coming of the Renaissance many new cities were enlarged with newly planned extensions. From the 15th century on, much more is recorded of urban design and the people that were involved. In this period, theoretical treatises on architecture and urban planning start to appear in which theoretical questions around planning the main lines, ensuring plans meet the needs of the given population and so forth are addressed and designs of towns and cities are described and depicted. During the Enlightenment period, several European rulers ambitiously attempted to redesign capital cities. During the Second French Empire, Baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann, under the direction of Napoleon III, redesigned the city of Paris into a more modern capital, with long, straight, wide boulevards. 
      Planning and architecture went through a paradigm shift at the turn of the 20th century. The industrialized cities of the 19th century grew at a tremendous rate. The evils of urban life for the working poor were becoming increasingly evident as a matter of public concern. The laissez-faire style of government management of the economy, in fashion for most of the Victorian era, was starting to give way to a New Liberalism that championed intervention on the part of the poor and disadvantaged. Around 1900, theorists began developing urban planning models to mitigate the consequences of the industrial age, by providing citizens, especially factory workers, with healthier environments. The following century would therefore be globally dominated by a central planning approach to urban planning, not necessarily representing an increment in the overall quality of the urban realm. 
      At the beginning of the 20th century, urban planning began to be recognized as a separate profession. The Town and Country Planning Association was founded in 1899 and the first academic course in Great Britain on urban planning was offered by the University of Liverpool in 1909. In the 1920s, the ideas of modernism and uniformity began to surface in urban planning, and lasted until the 1970s. In 1933, Le Corbusier presented the Radiant City, a city that grows up in the form of towers, as a solution to the problem of pollution and over-crowding. But many planners started to believe that the ideas of modernism in urban planning led to higher crime rates and social problems. 
      In the second half of the 20th century, urban planners gradually shifted their focus to individualism and diversity in urban centers.  
      21st century practices 
      Urban planners studying the effects of increasing congestion in urban areas began to address the externalities, the negative impacts caused by induced demand from larger highway systems in western countries such as in the United States. The United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs predicted in 2018 that around 2.5 billion more people occupy urban areas by 2050 according to population elements of global migration. New planning theories have adopted non-traditional concepts such as Blue Zones and Innovation Districts to incorporate geographic areas within the city that allow for novel business development and the prioritization of infrastructure that would assist with improving the quality of life of citizens by extending their potential lifespan. 
      Planning practices have incorporated policy changes to help address anthropocentric global climate change. London began to charge a congestion charge for cars trying to access already crowded places in the city. Cities are also prioritising public transit and cycling by adopting such policies.  
      Theories 
      
      
       Further information: Theories of urban planning
       
      
      
       See also: Planning cultures
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Street Hierarchy and Accessibility
        
       
       
      Planning theory is the body of scientific concepts, definitions, behavioral relationships, and assumptions that define the body of knowledge of urban planning. There are eight procedural theories of planning that remain the principal theories of planning procedure today: the rational-comprehensive approach, the incremental approach, the transactive approach, the communicative approach, the advocacy approach, the equity approach, the radical approach, and the humanist or phenomenological approach. Some other conceptual planning theories include Ebenezer Howard's The Three Magnets theory that he envisioned for the future of British settlement, also his Garden Cities, the Concentric Model Zone also called the Burgess Model by sociologist Ernest Burgess, the Radburn Superblock that encourages pedestrian movement, the Sector Model and the Multiple Nuclei Model among others.  
      Technical aspects 
      
      
       Further information: Technical aspects of urban planning
       
      Technical aspects of urban planning involve the application of scientific, technical processes, considerations and features that are involved in planning for land use, urban design, natural resources, transportation, and infrastructure. Urban planning includes techniques such as: predicting population growth, zoning, geographic mapping and analysis, analyzing park space, surveying the water supply, identifying transportation patterns, recognizing food supply demands, allocating healthcare and social services, and analyzing the impact of land use. 
      In order to predict how cities will develop and estimate the effects of their interventions, planners use various models. These models can be used to indicate relationships and patterns in demographic, geographic, and economic data. They might deal with short-term issues such as how people move through cities, or long-term issues such as land use and growth. One such model is the Geographic Information System (GIS) that is used to create a model of the existing planning and then to project future impacts on the society, economy and environment. 
      Building codes and other regulations dovetail with urban planning by governing how cities are constructed and used from the individual level. Enforcement methodologies include governmental zoning, planning permissions, and building codes, as well as private easements and restrictive covenants.  
      Urban planners 
      
      
       Further information: Urban planner
       
      An urban planner is a professional who works in the field of urban planning for the purpose of optimizing the effectiveness of a community's land use and infrastructure. They formulate plans for the development and management of urban and suburban areas, typically analyzing land use compatibility as well as economic, environmental and social trends. In developing any plan for a community (whether commercial, residential, agricultural, natural or recreational), urban planners must consider a wide array of issues including sustainability, existing and potential pollution, transport including potential congestion, crime, land values, economic development, social equity, zoning codes, and other legislation. 
      The importance of the urban planner is increasing in the 21st century, as modern society begins to face issues of increased population growth, climate change and unsustainable development. An urban planner could be considered a green collar professional. 
      Some researchers suggest that urban planners around the world work in different "planning cultures", adapted to their local cities and cultures. However, professionals have identified skills, abilities and basic knowledge sets that are common to urban planners across national and regional boundaries.  
      Criticisms and debates in urban planning 
      The school of neoclassical economics argues that planning is unnecessary, or even harmful, because market efficiency allows for effective land use. A pluralist strain of political thinking argues in a similar vein that the government should not intrude in the political competition between different interest groups which decides how land is used. The traditional justification for urban planning has in response been that the planner does to the city what the engineer or architect does to the home, that is, make it more amenable to the needs and preferences of its inhabitants. 
      The widely adopted consensus-building model of planning, which seeks to accommodate different preferences within the community has been criticized for being based upon, rather than challenging, the power structures of the community. Instead, agonism has been proposed as a framework for urban planning decision-making.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Architecture portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Air pollution 
        Bicycle-friendly 
        Circulation planning 
        Cycling infrastructure 
        Development studies 
        Domestic travel restrictions 
        Elbow roomers 
        Epidemiology 
        Index of urban planning articles 
        Land recycling 
        List of planned cities 
        List of planning journals 
        List of urban planners 
        List of urban theorists 
        Low emission zone 
        Noise pollution 
        Planning cultures 
        Regional planning 
        Road traffic safety 
        Rural development 
        Smart city 
        Universal design 
        Urban density 
        Urban economics 
        Urban planning education 
        Urban green space 
        Urban history 
        Urban informatics 
        Urban planning in communist countries 
        Urban studies 
        Urban theory 
        Urban vitality 
        Walkability 
        Walking audit 
        Stroad
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c d "What is Urban Planning". School of Urban Planning, McGill University. Archived from the original on 8 January 2008.  
         ^ a b c 
           Taylor, Nigel (1998). Urban Planning Theory Since 1945. Los Angeles: Sage. pp.&nbsp;3–4. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7619-6093-5.  
         ^ a b 
           Midgley, James (1999). Social Development: The Developmental Perspective in Social Welfare. Sage. p.&nbsp;50. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8039-7773-0.  
         ^ 
           Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p.&nbsp;704. ISBN&nbsp;978-0415862875.  
         ^ 
           "3 urban planning trends that are changing how our cities will look in the future". Building Design + Construction. 18 February 2020. Retrieved 25 September 2020.  
         ^ Van Assche, K., Beunen, R., Duineveld, M., &amp; de Jong, H. (2013). Co-evolutions of planning and design: Risks and benefits of design perspectives in planning systems. Planning Theory, 12(2), 177-198.  
         ^ 
           "What Is Planning?". American Planning Association. Archived from the original on 10 March 2015.  
         ^ 
           "What is Urban Planning?". YouTube. Archived from the original on 30 October 2021.  
         ^ Hass-Klau, Carmen. "Motorization and Footpath Planning During the Third Reich." The Pedestrian and the City. Routledge, 2014.  
         ^ Davreu, Robert (1978). "Cities of Mystery: The Lost Empire of the Indus Valley". The World’s Last Mysteries. (second edition). Sydney: Readers’ Digest. pp. 121-129. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-909486-61-1.  
         ^ Kolb, Frank (1984). Die Stadt im Altertum. München: Verlag C.H. Beck. pp. 51-141: Morris, A.E.J. (1972). History of Urban Form. Prehistory to the Renaissance. London. pp. 22-23.  
         ^ 
           Boerefijn, Wim (2010). The foundation, planning and building of new towns in the 13th and 14th centuries in Europe. An architectural-historical research into urban form and its creation. Phd. thesis Universiteit van Amsterdam. ISBN&nbsp;978-90-9025157-8.  
         ^ 
           Jordan, David (1992). "Baron Haussmann and Modern Paris". American Scholar. 61 (1): 99.  
         ^ Fainstein, Susan S. Urban planning at the Encyclopædia Britannica  
         ^ 
           Morris, Eleanor Smith; et&nbsp;al. (1997). British Town Planning and Urban Design: Principles and policies. Harlow, Essex, England: Longman. pp.&nbsp;147–149. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-582-23496-3.  
         ^ 
           Routley, Nick (20 January 2018). "The Evolution of Urban Planning". Visual Capitalist. Retrieved 25 September 2020.  
         ^ 
           "Congestion Charge (Official)". Transport for London. Retrieved 25 September 2020.  
         ^ 
           Whittmore, Andrew (2 February 2015). "How Planners Use Planning Theory". Planetizen. Retrieved 24 April 2015. citing 
           Whittemore, Andrew H. (2014). "Practitioners Theorize, Too Reaffirming Planning Theory in a Survey of Practitioners' Theories". Journal of Planning Education and Research. 35 (1): 76–85. doi:10.1177/0739456X14563144. S2CID&nbsp;144888493.)  
         ^ 
           Mohd Nazim Saifi (4 March 2017). "Town planning theories concept and models". }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Landis, John D. (2012). "Modeling Urban Systems". In Weber, Rachel; Crane, Randall (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Urban Planning. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;323–350. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-537499-5.  
         ^ Codes, rules, and standards are part of a matrix of relations that influence the practice of urban planning and design. These forms of regulation provide an important and inescapable framework for development, from the laying out of subdivisions to the control of stormwater runoff. The subject of regulations leads to the source of how communities are designed and constructed—defining how they can and can't be built—and how codes, rules, and standards continue to shape the physical space where we live and work. 
           Ben-Joseph, Eran (2012). "Codes and Standards in Urban Planning and Design". In Weber, Rachel; Crane, Randall (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Urban Planning. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;352–370. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-537499-5.  
         ^ 
           Smit, Anneke; Valiante, Marcia (2015). "Introduction". In Smit, Anneke; Valiante, Marcia (eds.). Public Interest, Private Property: Law and Planning Policy in Canada. Vancouver, British Columbia: University of British Columbia Press. pp.&nbsp;1–36, page 10. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7748-2931-1.  
         ^ 
           Heidari, Hadi; Arabi, Mazdak; Warziniack, Travis; Sharvelle, Sybil (2021). "Effects of Urban Development Patterns on Municipal Water Shortage". Frontiers in Water. 3: 694817. Bibcode:2021FrW.....394817H. doi:10.3389/frwa.2021.694817. ISSN&nbsp;2624-9375.  
         ^ 
           Heidari, Hadi; Arabi, Mazdak; Warziniack, Travis; Kao, Shih-Chieh (June 2021). "Shifts in hydroclimatology of US megaregions in response to climate change". Environmental Research Communications. 3 (6): 065002. Bibcode:2021ERCom...3f5002H. doi:10.1088/2515-7620/ac0617. ISSN&nbsp;2515-7620.  
         ^ 
           Kamenetz, Anya (14 January 2009). "Ten Best Green Jobs for the Next Decade". fastcompany. Fast Company. Archived from the original on 26 August 2012. Retrieved 14 January 2009.  
         ^ 
           Friedman, John (2012). "Varieties of Planning Experience: Toward a Globalized Planning Culture?". In Weber, Rachel; Crane, Randall (eds.). The Oxford Handbook of Urban Planning. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press. pp.&nbsp;87–98. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-537499-5.  
         ^ 
           "American Institutes of Certified Planners Certification". American Planning Association. American Planning Association. Retrieved 20 July 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Professional standards". Royal Institute of Town Planners. Royal Town Planning Institute. Retrieved 20 July 2017.  
         ^ 
           "About ISOCARP". International Society of City and Regional Planners. Retrieved 20 July 2017.  
         ^ a b c 
           Klosterman, Richard E. (1985). "Arguments for and against Planning". The Town Planning Review. 56 (1): 5–20. doi:10.3828/tpr.56.1.e8286q3082111km4. ISSN&nbsp;0041-0020. JSTOR&nbsp;40112168.  
         ^ a b 
           McAuliffe, Cameron; Rogers, Dallas (March 2019). "The politics of value in urban development: Valuing conflict in agonistic pluralism". Planning Theory. 18 (3): 300–318. doi:10.1177/1473095219831381. ISSN&nbsp;1473-0952. S2CID&nbsp;150714892.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Pennington, Mark (2008). "Urban planning". In Hamowy, Ronald (ed.). The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp.&nbsp;517–18. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n316. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN&nbsp;2008009151. OCLC&nbsp;750831024. 
       Knox, P. L. (2020) Better by Design?: Architecture, Urban Planning, and the Good City. Blacksburg: Virginia Tech Publishing. DOI: https://doi.org/10.21061/better-by-design 
       
        Paul Waterhouse; Raymond Unwin (1912), Old Towns and New Needs; also the Town Extension Plan, Manchester: Victoria University of Manchester, OCLC&nbsp;225676578, Wikidata&nbsp;Q18606907
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Urban planningat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Media from Commons
        Resources from Wikiversity
        Data from Wikidata
       
       
      
       Urban planning at Curlie 
       American Planning Association
       
      Library guides for urban planning 
      
       
        Libraries. "Urban Planning Resources". Research Guides. USA: Arizona State University. 
       
        Library. "Urban Planning". Research Guides. University of California, Los Angeles. Archived from the original on 30 March 2014. Retrieved 21 March 2015. 
       
        Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library. "Urban Planning". Research Guides. New York: Columbia University. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 21 March 2015. 
       
        Library. "Urban &amp; Regional Policy". Research Guides. USA: Georgia Tech. 
       
        Harvard University Graduate School of Design. "Urban Planning and Design". Research Guides. Massachusetts: Harvard Library. 
       
        Hunter College Libraries. "Urban Affairs &amp; Planning". Topic Guides. New York City: CUNY Hunter College. Archived from the original on 22 February 2014. Retrieved 21 March 2015. 
       
        University Library. "City Planning". LibGuides. University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. 
       
        MIT Libraries. "Urban Studies &amp; Planning". Research Guides. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
       
        "Urban &amp; Regional Planning". Research Guides. USA: University of Michigan. 
       
        Library. "Urban Studies &amp; Planning". Research Guides. Oregon, USA: Portland State University. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 21 March 2015.
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Urban planning
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             Urban area 
             City 
             Metropolitan area 
             Suburb 
             Land use 
             Planning 
             Planning and zoning commission 
             Growth management 
             World Urbanism Day
             
           
         
         
          Majorbranches
          
           
           
            
             
              Urban planning
              
                
                
                 Land-use planning 
                 Comprehensive planning (US) 
                 History of urban planning 
                 Spatial planning (Eur) 
                 Redevelopment 
                 Urban design 
                 Urbanism
                 
               
             
             
              Rural
              
                
                
                 Conservation development 
                 Preservation development 
                 Rural housing 
                 Village design statement (UK)
                 
               
             
             
              Regional planning
              
                
                
                 Regional Planning Association of America
                 
               
             
             
              Environmental planning
              
                
                
                 Environmental design 
                 Environmental impact assessment 
                 Recreation resource planning 
                 Sustainable development
                 
               
             
             
              Transportation planning
              
                
                
                 Transportation forecasting 
                 Trip distribution 
                 Rational planning model 
                 Transit-oriented development 
                 Professional transportation planner 
                 Urban freight distribution
                 
               
             
             
              Economic development
              
                
                
                 Community economic development
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Concepts/ theories
          
           
           
            
             
              Movements
              
                
                
                 Athens Charter 
                 Car-free movement 
                 City Beautiful movement 
                 Dark-sky movement 
                 Garden city movement 
                 Indigenous planning 
                 New Urbanism 
                 Settlement movement 
                 Smart growth 
                 Structuralism 
                 Transition towns
                 
               
             
             
              Theories
              
                
                
                 Collaborative planning 
                 Context theory 
                 Ekistics 
                 Intelligent urbanism 
                 Livable streets 
                 Market urbanism 
                 Radical planning 
                 Urban acupuncture 
                 Urban renewal
                 
               
             
             
              Cities by type
              
                
                
                 Company town / Monotown 
                 Commuter town 
                 Ghost town 
                 Global city 
                 Model village 
                 Planned community (New town)
                 
               
             
             
              Concepts
              
                
                
                 Affordable housing 
                 Cityscape 
                 Cluster development 
                 Complete Communities 
                 Creative city 
                 Eminent domain (US) 
                 Gentrification / Brusselization 
                 Infill 
                 Healthy cities / Healthy community design 
                 LEED-ND 
                 Mixed-use development 
                 Model cities 
                 Placemaking 
                 Planning gain 
                 Planning Permission (U.K.) 
                 Rural–urban fringe 
                 Temporary use 
                 Third place 
                 Tract housing 
                 Transferable development rights 
                 Urban decay 
                 Urban growth boundary 
                 Urban sprawl / Peri-urbanisation 
                 Urban vitality 
                 Urbanization 
                 Verticalization / High-rise urbanism 
                 Zoning
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          People
          
           
           
            
             
              Theorists/practitioners
              
                
                
                 Andrés Duany 
                 Clarence Perry 
                 Clarence Stein 
                 Colin Buchanan 
                 Daniel Burnham 
                 Donald Appleyard 
                 Ebenezer Howard 
                 Edmund Bacon 
                 Guy Benveniste 
                 Ian McHarg 
                 James Rouse 
                 Konstantinos Doxiadis 
                 Kevin A. Lynch 
                 Le Corbusier 
                 Peter Calthorpe 
                 Patrick Geddes 
                 Raymond Unwin 
                 Thomas Adams 
                 List of urban theorists 
                 List of urban planners
                 
                
                 
                 
               
             
             
              Critics
              
                
                
                 Elizabeth Farrelly 
                 Jane Jacobs 
                 James Howard Kunstler 
                 Lewis Mumford 
                 Randal O'Toole
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Relateddisciplines
          
            
            
             Architecture 
             Civil engineering 
             Development economics 
             Urban ecology 
             Urban economics 
             Geography 
             Land development 
             Landscape architecture 
             Marine spatial planning  
             Public health 
             Public policy 
             Real estate development 
             Social sciences
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Cities portal 
              Category 
             Index of urban planning articles 
             List of planned cities 
             List of planning journals 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Land use
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             Degradation 
             Development/Conversion 
             Planning 
             Conflict 
             Land management 
              
               Sustainable land management
               
             Landscaping 
              
               Integrated landscape management
               
             Land grabbing 
             Land consumption 
             Land loss 
              
               Habitat loss
               
             Illegal construction 
             Land reclamation 
             Land rehabilitation 
             Landscape ecology 
             Rangeland management 
             Environmental planning 
              
               Leopold matrix 
               Watertable control
               
             Developed environments 
              
               Built-up area
              
             
           
         
         
          Property
          
            
            
             Property 
              
               Subdivision (land) 
               Real estate developer
               
             Land development bank 
             Land (economics) 
             Customary land
             
           
         
         
          Related fields
          
            
            
             Soil 
              
               Soil science 
               Soil compaction 
               Soil pollution
               
             Overpopulation 
             Pollution 
             Deforestation 
             Urban planning 
              
               Infrastructure 
               Urban renewal
               
             Agriculture 
              
               Permaculture 
               Drainage system (agriculture) 
               Sustainable agriculture 
               Land change modeling
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Categories: Land use
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Urban_planning&amp;oldid=1069651842"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Urban planning
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with Encyclopædia Britannica links
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from April 2015
       Use American English from April 2015
       All Wikipedia articles written in American English
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2020
       Pages using Sister project links with wikidata namespace mismatch
       Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
       Articles with Curlie links
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Arpetan
       Asturianu
       تۆرکجه
       বাংলা
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Беларуская
       Български
       Bosanski
       Brezhoneg
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       ລາວ
       Latina
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 February 2022, at 10:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
