
 
  
   
  Political ecology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Political ecology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Political ecology studies the complex interaction between economics, politics, technology, social tradition and the biological environment. These terraced rice fields in Yunnan, China, evidence how the environment is shaped by and shapes economy and society.
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Anthropology of nature,science and technology
        
        
          
          
           
            Basic concepts
           
            
            
             Ecogovernmentality 
             Nature–culture divide
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related articles
           
            
            
             Cultural ecology 
             Cyborg anthropology 
             Digital anthropology 
             Ecological anthropology 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Political ecology 
             Science, technology and society
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Major theorists
           
            
            
             Tom Boellstorff 
             Gabriella Coleman 
             Roy Ellen 
             Donna Haraway 
             Mizuko Ito 
             Daniel Miller 
             Mike Wesch 
             Leslie White
            
           
           
        
        
          Social and cultural anthropology
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of the Politics series
        
        
         Politics
        
        
         
        
        
          
           
           
            Outline 
            Index 
            Category
            
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Primary topics
           
           
             
             
              Outline of political science 
              Index of politics articles 
              Politics by country 
              Politics by subdivision 
              Political economy 
              Political history 
              Political history of the world 
              Political philosophy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Political systems
           
           
             
             
              Anarchy 
              City-state 
              Democracy 
              Dictatorship 
              Directory 
              Federacy 
              Feudalism 
              Meritocracy 
              Monarchy 
              Parliamentary 
              Presidential 
              Republic 
              Semi-parliamentary 
              Semi-presidential 
              Theocracy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Academic disciplines
           
           
             
             
              
               
                Political science (political scientists)
                
              
               
                International relations (theory)
                
              Comparative politics 
              Political psychology 
              Political sociology
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Public administration
           
           
             
             
              Bureaucracy (street-level) 
              Technocracy 
              Adhocracy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Policy
           
           
             
             
              Public policy (doctrine) 
              Domestic policy 
              Foreign policy 
              Civil society 
              Public interest
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches of government
           
           
             
             
              Separation of powers
              
             
              
              
             
              Legislature 
              Executive 
              Judiciary 
              Election commission
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Related topics
           
           
             
             
              Sovereignty 
              Theories of political behavior 
              Biology and political orientation 
              Political organisations 
              Critique of political economy
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Subseries
           
           
             
             
              Electoral systems 
              Elections 
               
                voting
                
              Unitarism 
              Federalism 
              Form of government 
              Ideology 
              Political campaigning 
              Political parties
              
            
           
           
        
        
          &nbsp;Politics portal
        
        
         
          
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Political ecology is the study of the relationships between political, economic and social factors with environmental issues and changes. Political ecology differs from apolitical ecological studies by politicizing environmental issues and phenomena. 
      The academic discipline offers wide-ranging studies integrating ecological social sciences with political economy in topics such as degradation and marginalization, environmental conflict, conservation and control, and environmental identities and social movements.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origins 
        2 Overview 
        3 Scope and influences 
        4 Relationship to anthropology and geography 
        5 Relationship to conservation 
        6 Power perspective in political ecology 
          
          6.1 Actor-oriented power perspectives: 
           
        7 Political ecologists 
        8 Related journals 
        9 See also 
        10 References 
          
          10.1 Notes 
          10.2 Bibliography 
           
        11 External links 
        
       
      Origins 
      The term "political ecology" was first coined by Frank Thone in an article published in 1935. It has been widely used since then in the context of human geography and human ecology, but with no systematic definition. Anthropologist Eric R. Wolf gave it a second life in 1972 in an article entitled "Ownership and Political Ecology", in which he discusses how local rules of ownership and inheritance "mediate between the pressures emanating from the larger society and the exigencies of the local ecosystem", but did not develop the concept further. Other origins include other early works of Eric R. Wolf, Michael J. Watts, Susanna Hecht, and others in the 1970s and 1980s. 
      The origins of the field in the 1970s and 1980s were a result of the development of development geography and cultural ecology, particularly the work of Piers Blaikie on the sociopolitical origins of soil erosion. Historically, political ecology has focused on phenomena in and affecting the developing world; since the field's inception, "research has sought primarily to understand the political dynamics surrounding material and discursive struggles over the environment in the third world". 
      Scholars in political ecology are drawn from a variety of academic disciplines, including geography, anthropology, development studies, political science, economics, sociology, forestry, and environmental history. 
      Petra Kelly is one of the founding figures of political ecologist parties throughout Germany and Europe.  
      Overview 
      Political ecology's broad scope and interdisciplinary nature lends itself to multiple definitions and understandings. However, common assumptions across the field give the term relevance. Raymond L. Bryant and Sinéad Bailey developed three fundamental assumptions in practising political ecology:  
      
       First, changes in the environment do not affect society in a homogenous way: political, social, and economic differences account for uneven distribution of costs and benefits. 
       Second, "any change in environmental conditions must affect the political and economic status quo." 
       Third, the unequal distribution of costs and benefits and the reinforcing or reducing of pre-existing inequalities has political implications in terms of the altered power relationships that then result.
       
      In addition, political ecology attempts to provide critiques and alternatives in the interplay of the environment and political, economic and social factors. Paul Robbins asserts that the discipline has a "normative understanding that there are very likely better, less coercive, less exploitative, and more sustainable ways of doing things". 
      From these assumptions, political ecology can be used to:  
      
       inform policymakers and organizations of the complexities surrounding environment and development, thereby contributing to better environmental governance. 
       understand the decisions that communities make about the natural environment in the context of their political environment, economic pressure, and societal regulations 
       look at how unequal relations in and among societies affect the natural environment, especially in context of government policy.
       
      Scope and influences 
      Political ecology's movement as a field since its inception in the 1970s has complicated its scope and goals. Through the discipline's history, certain influences have grown more and less influential in determining the focus of study. Peter A. Walker traces the importance of the ecological sciences in political ecology. He points to the transition, for many critics, from a ‘structuralist’ approach through the 1970s and 1980s, in which ecology maintains a key position in the discipline, to a 'poststructuralist' approach with an emphasis on the 'politics' in political ecology. This turn has raised questions as to the differentiation with environmental politics as well as the field's use of the term of 'ecology'. Political ecological research has shifted from investigating political influence on the earth's surface to the focus on spatial-ecological influences on politics and power—a scope reminiscent of environmental politics. 
      Much has been drawn from cultural ecology, a form of analysis that showed how culture depends upon, and is influenced by, the material conditions of society (political ecology has largely eclipsed cultural ecology as a form of analysis according to Walker.) As Walker states, "whereas cultural ecology and systems theory emphasize adaptation and homeostasis, political ecology emphasize the role of political economy as a force of maladaptation and instability". 
      Political ecologists often use political economy frameworks to analyze environmental issues. Early and prominent examples of this were Silent Violence: Food, Famine and Peasantry in Northern Nigeria by Michael Watts in 1983, which traced the famine in northern Nigeria during the 1970s to the effects of colonialism, rather than an inevitable consequence of the drought in the Sahel, and The Political Economy of Soil Erosion in Developing Countries by Piers Blaikie in 1985, which traced land degradation in Africa to colonial policies of land appropriation, rather than over-exploitation by African farmers.  
      Relationship to anthropology and geography 
      Originating in the 18th and 19th centuries with philosophers such as Adam Smith, Karl Marx, and Thomas Malthus, political economy attempted to explain the relationships between economic production and political processes. It tended toward overly structuralist explanations, focusing on the role of individual economic relationships in the maintenance of social order. Eric Wolf used political economy in a neo-Marxist framework which began addressing the role of local cultures as a part of the world capitalist system, refusing to see those cultures as "primitive isolates". But environmental effects on political and economic processes were under-emphasised. 
      Conversely, Julian Steward and Roy Rappaport's theories of cultural ecology are sometimes credited with shifting the functionalist-oriented anthropology of the 1950s and 1960s and incorporating ecology and environment into ethnographic study. 
      Geographers and anthropologists worked with the strengths of both to form the basis of political ecology. PE focuses on issues of power, recognizing the importance of explaining environmental impacts on cultural processes without separating out political and economic contexts. 
      The application of political ecology in the work of anthropologists and geographers differs. While any approach will take both the political/economic and the ecological into account, the emphasis can be unequal. Some, such as geographer Michael Watts, focus on how the assertion of power impacts on access to environmental resources. His approach tends to see environmental harm as both a cause and an effect of “social marginalization”. 
      Political ecology has strengths and weaknesses. At its core, it contextualizes political and ecological explanations of human behavior. But as Walker points out, it has failed to offer “compelling counter-narratives” to “widely influential and popular yet deeply flawed and unapologetic neo-Malthusian rants such as Robert Kaplan's (1994) 'The coming anarchy' and Jared Diamond's (2005) Collapse (385). Ultimately, applying political ecology to policy decisions – especially in the US and Western Europe – will remain problematic as long as there is a resistance to Marxist and neo-Marxist theory. 
      Andrew Vayda and Bradley Walters (1999) criticize political ecologists for pre-supposing “the importance ... of certain kinds of political factors in the explanation of environmental changes” (167). Vayda and Walter's response to overly political approaches in political ecology is to encourage what they call “event ecology”, focusing on human responses to environmental events without presupposing the impact of political processes on environmental events. The critique has not been taken up widely. One example of work that builds on event ecology, in order to add a more explicit focus on the role of power dynamics and the need for including local peoples' voices is Penna-Firme (2013) "Political and Event Ecology: critiques and opportunities for collaboration".  
      Relationship to conservation 
      There is a divergence of ideas between conservation science and political ecology. With conservationists establishing protected areas to conserve biodiversity, "political ecologists have devoted some energy to the study of protected areas, which is unsurprising given political ecology's overall interest in forms of access to, and control over resources". The arguments against enclosure of land for conservation is that it harms local people and their livelihood systems, by denying them access. As Dove and Carpenter state, "indigenous people have important environmental knowledge which could contribute to conservation". The objection by political ecologists is that land use regulations are made by NGOs and the government, denying access, denying the ability of local people to conserve species and areas themselves, and rendering them more vulnerable through dispossession.  
      
      
       In a few cases, perhaps especially tragic local groups have been displaced to create national parks and reserves to ‘conserve’ the forest. Fortunately, most conservation bodies are now aware that, if a group has been using and managing a forest for several thousand years, throwing it off the land is more apt to destroy the forest ecosystem than to preserve it. (Sutton 2004: 302)
       
      Power perspective in political ecology 
      Power is inevitable at the core of political ecology. Political ecology in the view Greenberg and Park is a way of creating a synergy between a political economy that aligns power distribution with ecological analysis and economic activities in a wider version of bio-environmental relations. Political ecology explained by Bryant is the dynamic in politics that is associated with "discursive struggle" and material in the environment of less developed nations, showing how unequal relation in power makes up a political environment. In the view of Robbins, empirical exploration that shows the changes occurring in an environment in clear connection to power is termed political ecology. 
      With power taking the central role in political ecology, there is a need to clarify the perspectives of power and the contributors to these perspectives, as well as the way political ecologies form situated ecocultural identities.  
      Actor-oriented power perspectives: 
      According to the actor-oriented power perspectives, power is exercised by actors which are contrary to the presumption of power being perceived as a force likely to pass individuals with no consciousness. Fredrick Engelstad, a Norwegian sociologist explained the concept of power as the combination of relationality, causality, and intentionality. The implication of this is that actors are perceived as power carriers in a significant way by which through action a certain intention (intentionality) is achieved, action occurs between at least two actors (relationality), and intended results are produced by action (causality). Viewing the power perspective from the angle of actor-oriented, Dowding submitted that power is linked to the agency, and this does not take away the importance of structure. Rather, while seen actor's use of power as a constraint, it is also propelled by structures. 
      The contributions made by actor-oriented power theory are given by Max Weber (1964) where he explained power to be people’s ability to the realization of their wills irrespective of the resistance posed by others. An instance given by Robert Dahl is the case where actor A exercises power over actor B by getting actor B to execute a task that actor B will otherwise not do. The extreme case of this is when some group of individuals is mandated to carry out the task contrary to their thought or will. 
      Svarstad, Benjaminsen, and Overå held that the theory of actor-oriented power help in providing conceptual distinctions with useful insight into the theoretical elements that are vital in studying political ecology. While there are actors who either exercise or try to put power into use in diverse ways, there are also actors who encounter resistance from their oppositions and other forces. An instance of these forces is the resisting the fulfilment of actors' intentions by other opposition who are more powerful. It can also come in the form of institutional structural constraints emanating from the outcome of intended actions. 
      The use of power by actors who exercise environmental interventions and actors who resist such interventions are oftentimes the emphasis of scholars of political ecology. However, when environmental interventions result in environmental degradations, scholars of political ecology throw their support to actors who resist such exercise of environmental interventions. Actors exercising environmental interventions include corporate organizations, governmental and non-governmental organizations  while actors that resist them include groups such as peasants, fishermen, or pastoralists, by exercising counter-power using various kinds of resistance, or active involvement.  
      Neo-Marxist power perspectives 
      Amongst the foundations of political ecology is the political economy thought of Marxist which centered on the inequalities that emerged from global capitalism. However, the power perspectives of Marx are most likely highlighted even though there are several perspectives of power in political ecology influenced directly or indirectly by Marx.  The Marxist main focus under capitalism is in relation to class and the stability of reproducing this class relation. Marx also placed human agency as the most important of his power concept with the human agency being socially conditioned as seen in his quote below: 
      "Men make their history, but they do not make it as they please; they do not make it under self-selected circumstances, but under circumstances existing already, given and transmitted from the past (Marx 1852:5)". 
      Thus, Marx's power theory which formed his perspective of power is the understanding of human agency as being constrained by social structure. As structure produces the potential and extent for power exertion, the human agency is reproducing the structure. This is illustrated by Isaac (1987) using the powerful David Rockefeller (1915 to 2017). is quoted below: 
      "But a social theory of power must explain what kinds of social relations exist and how power is distributed by these relations, such that it is possible for David Rockefeller to have the power that he has. To do this is not to deny that it is he who possesses this power, nor to deny those personal attributes determining the particular manner in which he exercises it. It is simply to insist that the power individuals possess has social conditions of existence and that it is these conditions that should be the primary focus of theoretical analysis". 
      Poststructuralist power perspectives 
      The poststructuralist power perspective is the domain of Michel Foucault’s work with its application in political ecology. The poststructuralist power perspectives can be in three dimensions such as; biopower, governmentality, and discursive power. 
      Biopower indicates that to secure life, governments are concerned with the improvement of health and quality of life among populations. Foucault in his work explained how through the knowledge of power, people have learned how they should behave. In so doing, Foucault separates sovereign power from bio-power. Where sovereign power is termed "take life or let live", the bio-power "make life or let die". While human as specie is continuously elaboration in conformity to nature, the superior one will intervene, acting on the environmental condition if the species of human are to be altered. Therefore, bio-power aim in terms of governance and knowledge is to ascertain environmental issues as core concerns. 
      Political ecology emphasized that understanding how power works in environmental governance follows Foucault’s notion of “governmentality”.   Foucault sees governmentality as the means employed by the government to make its citizens behave in line with the priorities of government. Fletcher separates governmentality into four kinds. First is "discipline" which ensures that the citizens internalize specific manners like ethical standards and social norms. The second is the "truth" which is a way of governing citizens using truth-defining standards like religion. The third is "Neoliberal rationality" which is a motivational structure formed and used to improve outcomes. The fourth is "Sovereign power" used to govern based on rules and punishment for faulting the rules. According to Fletcher, these governmentalities may conflict, work alone, or overlap. Also, the first two are dependent on humans believing government priorities, the second two do not but are seen as of importance. 
      Lastly, "discursive power" manifest when actors (corporate organization, governmental, and non-governmental organizations) make people or groups imbibe and add to the reproduction of the discourses they produce. Unlike in other fields, in political ecology, discourses are studied in line with a critical realist epistemology.    There are instances where the formation of discursive power is traced to a state’s colonial era when efforts are made in the appropriation of new territories. Going by the basis of Foucault's political-ecological discursive power, it becomes imperative to mention that, there exist various perspectives to those of Foucault with wider space for human agency. 
      Comparing between bio-power, governmentality, and discursive power, both governmentality, and discursive power can be regarded as a theoretical perspective with significant importance while bio-power can be regarded as a topical concern identified by Foucault as the core of modern-day governments.  
      Political ecologists 
      Some prominent contemporary scholars include:  
      
       
       
        Anthony Bebbington 
        Piers Blaikie 
        Murray Bookchin 
        Harold Brookfield 
        Raymond L. Bryant 
        Michael R. Dove 
        Robyn Eckersley 
        Arturo Escobar 
        Andre Gorz 
        Félix Guattari 
        Susanna Hecht 
        Ivan Illich 
        Giorgos Kallis 
        Alain Lipietz 
        William Moseley 
        Richard Peet 
        Paul Robbins 
        Ariel Salleh 
        Farhana Sultana 
        Erik Swyngedouw 
        Bhaskar Vira 
        Michael Watts 
        Karl Zimmerer
        
       
      Related journals 
      Scholarly journals that have been key to the development (and critique) of this field include:  
      
       
       
        Annals of the Association of American Geographers 
        Antipode 
        Capitalism Nature Socialism 
        Development and Change 
        Journal of Peasant Studies 
        Ecological Economics 
        Ecology 
        Economic Geography 
        Environment and Planning 
        Futures 
        Gender, Place &amp; Culture 
        Geoforum 
        Human Ecology 
        Journal of Political Ecology 
        New Left Review 
        Progress in Human Geography 
        Progress in Physical Geography 
        Oryx (journal)
        
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Agroecology 
        Criticism of capitalism 
        Cultural ecology 
        Development geography 
        Ecofeminism 
        Ecological crisis 
        Eco-socialism 
        Ecogovernmentality 
        Environmental justice 
        Environmental Politics 
        Environmental racism 
        Environmental sociology 
        Feminist political ecology 
        Green state 
        Human behavioral ecology 
        List of ecology topics 
        Political economy 
        Social ecology
        
       
      References 
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Peet and Watts, 1996, p.6.  
         ^ Robbins, 2012.  
         ^ "Nature Rambling: We Fight for Grass," The Science Newsletter 27, 717, Jan. 5: 14.  
         ^ Wolf, 1972, p.202.  
         ^ Bryant, 1998, p.80.  
         ^ Piers Blaikie, 1985  
         ^ Bryant, 1998, p.89.  
         ^ Bryant and Bailey, 1997, p.28.  
         ^ Paul Robbins, 2012.  
         ^ a b Walker, 2005, p.74.  
         ^ Walker, 2005, p.74-75.  
         ^ Walker, 2005.  
         ^ Ritzer, 2008: 28.  
         ^ a b Perry, 2003: 123.  
         ^ Wolf, 1997: 7-9.  
         ^ Wolf, 1997: 13.  
         ^ Perry, 2003: 154-157.  
         ^ Wolf, 1972.  
         ^ Watts, 1983.  
         ^ Blaikie, 1985.  
         ^ Hecht &amp; Cockburn, 1990.  
         ^ Peluso, 1992.  
         ^ Greenberg &amp; Park, 1994.  
         ^ Hershkovitz, 1993.  
         ^ Paulson, 2003: 205.  
         ^ Walker, 2006.  
         ^ Walker, 2006: 388-389.  
         ^ Vayda &amp; Walters, 1999: 169.  
         ^ Hanna, et al., 2004: 203.  
         ^ Dove &amp; Carpenter, 2008: 4.  
         ^ Greenberg and Park, J. B. and T. K. (1994). "Political ecology". Journal of Political Ecology. 1: 1–12.  
         ^ 
           Bryant, Raymond (1998). "Power, knowledge and political ecology in the third world: a review". Progress in Physical Geography. 22 (1): 79–94. doi:10.1177/030913339802200104. S2CID&nbsp;129592219.  
         ^ 
           Robbins, P (2004). Political ecology: a critical introduction. Oxford: Blackwell.  
         ^ Milstein, T. &amp; Castro-Sotomayor, J. (2020). Routledge Handbook of Ecocultural Identity. London, UK: Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781351068840  
         ^ 
           Engelstad, Fredrik (1999). Om makt: teori og kritikk. Oslo: Gyldendal Norsk Forlag.  
         ^ 
           Dowding, Keith (2008). "Agency and structure: interpreting power relationships". Journal of Power. 1 (1): 21–36. doi:10.1080/17540290801943380. S2CID&nbsp;145595686.  
         ^ 
           Dahl, Robert (1957). "The concept of power". Behavioral Science. 2: 2001–2015.  
         ^ a b 
           Svarstad, Hanne (2002). "Analysing conservation-environment discourses: the story of a biopiracy narrative". Forum for Development Studies. 29 (1): 63–92. doi:10.1080/08039410.2002.9666187. S2CID&nbsp;129366241.  
         ^ 
           Bergius, M., Benjaminsen, T. A., and Widgren, M. (2018). "Green economy, Scandinavian investments and agricultural modernization in Tanzania". Journal of Peasant Studies. 45 (4): 825–852. doi:10.1080/03066150.2016.1260554. S2CID&nbsp;157964979.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Büscher, B. and Ramutsindela, M. (2016). "Green violence: rhino poaching and the war to save Southern Africa's Peace Parks". African Affairs. 115 (458): 1–22.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Igoe, J. and Croucher. B. (2007). "Conservation, commerce, and communities: the story of community-based wildlife management areas in Tanzania's Northern tourist circuit". Conservation and Society. 5 (4): 534–561.  
         ^ 
           Rocheleau, Dianne (2015). "Networked, rooted and territorial: green grabbing and resistance in Chiapas". Journal of Peasant Studies. 42 (3–4): 695–723. doi:10.1080/03066150.2014.993622. S2CID&nbsp;154521594.  
         ^ 
           Holmes, George (2007). "Protection, politics, and protest: understanding resistance to conservation". Conservation and Society. 5 (2): 184–201.  
         ^ 
           Wanvik, T.I. and Caine, K. (2017). "Understanding indigenous strategic pragmatism: métis engagement with extractive industry developments in the Canadian North". The Extractive Industries and Society. 4 (3): 595–605. doi:10.1016/j.exis.2017.04.002. hdl:1956/17409.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Cavanagh, C. J. and Benjaminsen, T. A. (2015). "Guerrilla agriculture? A biopolitical guide to illicit cultivation within an IUCN Category II protected area". Journal of Peasant Studies. 42 (3–4): 725–745. doi:10.1080/03066150.2014.993623. S2CID&nbsp;145062291.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Svarstad, H., Benjaminsen, T., and Overå, R. (2018). "Power theories in political ecology". Journal of Political Ecology. 25: 351–363. doi:10.2458/v25i1.23044.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ a b c 
           Isaac, Jeffrey (1987). Power and Marxist theory: a realist view. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.  
         ^ 
           Marx, Karl (1982). "The eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon".}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Foucault, Michel (1978). History of sexuality. Vol. 1: an introduction. New York: Vintage.  
         ^ 
           Agrawal, Arun (2005). Environmentality: technologies of government and the making of subjects. Durham: Duke University Press.  
         ^ 
           Johnsen, K. I. and Benjaminsen, T. A. (2017). "The art of governing and everyday resistance: "rationalization" of Sámi reindeer husbandry in Norway since the 1970s". Acta Borealia. 34 (1): 1–25. doi:10.1080/08003831.2017.1317981. S2CID&nbsp;84180480.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ a b c 
           Fletcher, Robert (2010). "Neoliberal environmentality: towards a poststructuralist political ecology of the conservation debate". Conservation and Society. 8 (3): 171–181. doi:10.4103/0972-4923.73806.  
         ^ 
           Foucault, Michel (2008). The birth of bio-politics: lectures at the Collège de France 1978-1979. New York: Picador.  
         ^ 
           Bassett, T.J. and Bi Zuéli, K. (2000). "Environmental discourses and the Ivorian savannah". Annals of the Association of American Geographers. 90 (1): 67–95. doi:10.1111/0004-5608.00184. S2CID&nbsp;140631792.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Forsyth, T. J. and Walker, A. (2008). Forest guardians, forest destroyers: the politics of environmental knowledge in Northern Thailand. Seattle: University of Washington Press.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ 
           Leach, M. and Mearns, R. (1996). The lie of the land: challenging received wisdom on the African environment. Oxford: James Currey.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       Blaikie, P., and Brookfield, H. Land Degradation and Society. Methuen: 1987. 
       Blaikie, Piers. 1985. The Political Economy of Soil Erosion in Developing Countries. London; New York: Longman. 
       Bryant, Raymond L. 1998. Power, knowledge and political ecology in the third world: a review, Progress in Physical Geography 22(1):79-94. 
       Bryant, R. (ed.) 2015. International Handbook of Political Ecology. Edward Elgar 
       Bryant, Raymond L. and Sinead Bailey. 1997. Third World Political Ecology. Routledge. 
       Dove, Michael R., and Carol Carpenter, eds. 2008. Environmental Anthropology: A Historical Reader. MA: Blackwell. 
       Escobar, Arturo. 1996. “Construction Nature: elements for a post-structuralist political ecology”. Futures 28(4): 325-343. 
       Garí, Josep A. 2000. The Political Ecology of Biodiversity: Biodiversity conservation and rural development at the indigenous and peasant grassroots. D.Phil. Dissertation, University of Oxford. British Library No. 011720099 (DSC D213318). 
       Garí, Josep A. 2000. La ecología política de la biodiversidad. Ecología Política 20: 15-24. 
       Greenberg, James B. and Thomas K. Park. 1994. Political Ecology, Journal of Political Ecology 1: 1-12. 
       Hecht, Susanna &amp; Alexander Cockburn. 1990 . Fate of the Forest: Developers, Destroyers, and Defenders of the Amazon. University of Chicago Press. 
       Hershkovitz, Linda. 1993. Political Ecology and Environmental Management in the Loess Plateau, China, Human Ecology 21(4): 327-353. 
       Martinez-Alier, Joan. 2002. The Environmentalism of the Poor: A Study of Ecological Conflicts and Valuation. Edward Elgar. 
       Paulson, Susan, Lisa L. Gezon, and Michael Watts. 2003. Locating the Political in Political Ecology: An Introduction, Human Organization 62(3): 205-217. 
       Peet, Richard and Michael Watts. 1993. Introduction: Development Theory and Environment in an Age of Market Triumphalism, Economic Geography 68(3): 227-253. 
       Peet, Richard, Paul Robbins, and Michael Watts. (eds.) 2011. Global Political Ecology. Routledge. 
       Peet, Richard and Michael Watts. eds. 1996. Liberation ecologies: environment, development, social movements. Routledge. 
       Peluso, Nancy Lee. 1992. Rich Forests, Poor People: Resource Control and Resistance in Java. University of California Press. 
       Peluso Nancy Lee &amp; Michael Watts (eds.). 2001. Violent Environments. Cornell University Press. 
       Perreault, T., G. Bridge and J. McCarthy (eds.). 2015. Routledge Handbook of Political Ecology. Routledge. 
       Perry, Richard J. 2003. Five Key Concepts in Anthropological Thinking. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. 
       Ritzer, George. 2008. Modern Sociological Theory. Boston: McGraw-Hill. 
       Robbins, Paul. 2012. Political Ecology: A Critical Introduction. 2nd ed. Blackwell. 
       Rocheleau, D. 1995. Gender and a Feminist Political Ecology Perspective, IDS Institute for Development Studies 26(1): 9-16. 
       Salleh, Ariel (ed.) 2009. Eco-Sufficiency &amp; Global Justice: Women write Political Ecology. London: Pluto Press. 
       Salleh, Ariel. 2017. Ecofeminism in Clive Spash (ed.) Routledge Handbook of Ecological Economics. London: Routledge. 
       Sayre, Nathan. 2002. Species of Capital: Ranching, Endangered Species, and Urbanization in the Southwest. University of Arizona Press. 
       Sutton, Mark Q. and E.N. Anderson. 2004. Introduction to Cultural Ecology. Altamira. 
       Vayda, Andrew P. and Bradley B. Walters. 1999. Against Political Ecology, Human Ecology 27(1): 167-179. 
       Walker, Peter A. 2005. Political ecology: where is the ecology? Progress in Human Geography 29(1):73–82. 
       Watts, Michael. 1983 . Silent Violence: Food, Famine and Peasantry in Northern Nigeria. University of California Press. 
       Watts, Michael. 2000. “Political Ecology.” In Sheppard, E. and T. Barnes (eds.), A Companion to Economic Geography. Blackwell. 
       Walker, Peter A. 2006. Political ecology: where is the policy? Progress in Human Geography 30(3): 382-395. 
       Wolf, Eric. 1972. Ownership and Political Ecology, Anthropological Quarterly 45(3): 201-205.
       
      External links 
      
       Cultural and Political Ecology Specialty Group of the Association of American Geographers. Archive of newsletters, officers, award and honor recipients, as well as other resources associated with this community of scholars.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Environmental social science
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Ecological anthropology 
             Ecological economics 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Environmental crime 
             Environmental economics 
             Environmental communication 
             Environmental history 
             Environmental politics 
             Environmental psychology 
             Environmental sociology 
             Human ecology 
             Human geography 
             Political ecology 
             Regional science
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Agroecology 
             Anthrozoology 
             Behavioral geography 
             Community studies 
             Demography 
             Design 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Ecological humanities 
             Economics 
              
               energy 
               thermo
               
             Environmental 
              
               education 
               ethics 
               law 
               science 
               studies
               
             Ethnobiology 
              
               botany 
               ecology 
               zoology
               
             Forestry 
             Industrial ecology 
             Integrated geography 
             Permaculture 
             Rural sociology 
             Sexecology 
             Science, technology and society 
              
               science studies
               
             Sustainability 
              
               science 
               studies
               
             Systems ecology 
             Urban 
              
               ecology 
               geography 
               metabolism 
               studies
              
             
           
         
         
          Applied
          
            
            
             Architecture 
              
               landscape 
               sustainable
               
             Ecopsychology 
             Engineering 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Green criminology 
             Health 
              
               environmental 
               epidemiology 
               occupational 
               public
               
             Management 
              
               environmental 
               fisheries 
               forest 
               natural resource 
               waste
               
             Planning 
              
               environmental 
               land use 
               regional 
               spatial 
               urban
               
             Policy 
              
               energy 
               environmental
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Environment portal 
              Category 
             Concepts 
             Degrees 
             Journals 
             Research institutes 
             Scholars
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portals:
       
        
         Ecology
        
        
         Environment
        
        
         Politics
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Political_ecology&amp;oldid=1070728069"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Political ecology
       Ecology
       Anthropology
       Political geography
       Ecology terminology
       Environmental policy
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Français
       Հայերեն
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Português
       Русский
       Tagalog
       Türkçe
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 February 2022, at 23:49&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
