
 
  
   
  Quantum social science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Quantum social science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Quantum social science is an emerging field of interdisciplinary research which draws parallels between quantum physics and the social sciences. Although there is no settled consensus on a single approach, a unifying theme is that, while the social sciences have long modelled themselves on mechanistic science, they can learn much from quantum ideas such as complementarity and entanglement. Some authors are motivated by quantum mind theories that the brain, and therefore human interactions, are literally based on quantum processes, while others are more interested in taking advantage of the quantum toolkit to simulate social behaviours which elude classical treatment. Quantum ideas have been particularly influential in psychology, but are starting to affect other areas such as international relations and diplomacy in what one 2018 paper called a "quantum turn in the social sciences".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Core ideas 
        3 Applications 
        4 Criticism 
        5 References 
        
       
      History 
      The idea that quantum physics might play an important role in living systems has long been considered by physicists. Niels Bohr for example believed that his principle of complementarity extended into both biology and psychology, while Erwin Schrödinger wrote in his 1944 book What is Life? of a "quantum theory of biology" that saw genetic mutations in terms of quantum leaps. In his 1989 book The Emperor's New Mind, Roger Penrose hypothesized that quantum mechanics plays an essential role in human consciousness. His 1994 follow-up book Shadows of the Mind speculated that these quantum processes take place in microtubules inside neurons. 
      Some physicists have also been willing to consider an even more direct connection between mind and quantum matter, in a quantum version of panpsychism. In his 1975 book Disturbing the Universe, Freeman Dyson wrote that "mind is already inherent in every electron, and the processes of human consciousness differ only in degree but not in kind from the processes of choice between quantum states". David Bohm's 1951 book Quantum Theory included a chapter on "Analogies to Quantum Processes" where he considered applications including the understanding of thought processes, and in 1990 he published a paper named "A new theory of the relationship of mind and matter" which asserts that consciousness permeates all forms of matter. These ideas were popularised and extended by Danah Zohar in books including The Quantum Self and (with Ian Marshall) The Quantum Society. Karen Barad's 2007 book Meeting the Universe Halfway took "Niels Bohr's philosophy-physics" as a starting point to develop her theory of agential realism. 
      Beginning in the 1990s, a separate approach to quantum social science was taken by a number of interdisciplinary researchers, working in what became known as quantum cognition, who argued that quantum probability theory was better than classical probability theory at accounting for a range of cognitive effects of the sort studied in behavioral economics. Others worked on developing "weak" or "generalised" versions of quantum theory which extended concepts such as complementarity and entanglement to the social domain. In their 2013 book Quantum Social Science, Emmanuel Haven and Andrei Khrennikov developed mathematical formalisms for the application of quantum models to topics including psychology, economics, finance, and brain science. 
      Most researchers in areas such as quantum cognition view the quantum formalism solely as a mathematical toolbox, and do not assume that human cognition is physically based on quantum mechanics. Separately however, researchers in quantum biology have uncovered evidence of quantum effects being exploited in processes such as photosynthesis and avian navigation; and some authors, notably political scientist Alexander Wendt, have argued that human beings are literally what he calls "walking wave functions".  
      Core ideas 
      While quantum social scientists are divided on the question of whether social processes are physically quantum in nature, or just happen to be amenable to a quantum approach, there are a number of common ideas, themes, and concerns. The most fundamental is that, since its inception, social science has been based on a classical worldview, which needs to be updated in accordance with the teachings of quantum physics. In particular, quantum theory disputes key tenets or assumptions of the social sciences, which according to Wendt include materialism, determinism, and mechanism. 
      An example is the notion of entanglement. In mechanistic or pre-quantum science, particles are seen as individual entities that interact only in a mechanistic sense. In quantum mechanics, particles such as electrons can become entangled so that a measurement on one instantly affects the state of the other. In quantum social science, people are similarly entangled, whether through shared institutions such as language, or (according to some interpretations) through actual physical processes. An implication is that people are never completely separable, but are entangled elements of society. 
      Another example is the idea of wave function collapse. In standard interpretations of quantum physics, a particle is described by a wave function, and attributes such as position or momentum are only discovered through a measurement procedure which collapses the wave function to one of a number of allowed states. In quantum social science, mental states are best described as potentialities that "collapse" only when a judgement or decision is made. One consequence of wave function collapse in physics is that a measurement affects the system being studied, and therefore any future measurement. A corresponding phenomenon in social science is the so-called order effect, where responses to survey questions depends on the order in which they are asked.  
      Applications 
      Ideas from quantum physics have long inspired thinkers in areas such as politics, diplomacy, and international relations. The journalist Flora Lewis spoke of the "Quantum Mechanics of Politics" in 1975. In a 1997 lecture on "Diplomacy in the Information Age", former US Secretary of State George P. Shultz credits the physicist Sidney Drell for coining the term "quantum diplomacy" to describe how diplomats need to account for uncertainty and the fact that "the process of observation itself is a cause of change". In a 2011 paper, James Der Derian proposed quantum diplomacy as a way to understand the entanglements brought about by a globalized media and a multiplicity of actors operating at different levels. These ideas have been a theme of Der Derian's annual Q-Symposium since 2014. In a 2018 address to the Trilateral Commission, Danah Zohar argued that a mechanistic worldview has led to problems from inequality to climate change, and that we need to shift to a quantum perspective which incorporates effects such as uncertainty and entanglement. 
      While Wendt's 2015 book Quantum Mind and Social Science does not focus on political science, it does discuss the applicability of quantum theory to social systems in general, and its publication led to a great deal of analysis and discussion on this topic. Other related areas where quantum ideas are seeing applications include quantum game theory, quantum decision theory, quantum finance and quantum economics. In a 2019 article for the Bretton Woods Committee, Andrew Sheng wrote that "A quantum paradigm of finance and the economy is slowly emerging, and its nonlinear, complex nature may help the design of a future global economy and financial architecture."  
      Criticism 
      Quantum social science is contested by critics, who argue that it is inappropriately importing ideas from quantum physics to the social domain. The most common criticism is that due to quantum decoherence, quantum effects are filtered out at the macroscopic level, so cannot affect social systems. The physicist Max Tegmark for example has argued that brains cannot sustain quantum coherence. 
      A related topic of controversy is whether quantum science should be applied to social systems only in a metaphorical sense, or whether it should be taken as a physical description of those systems. This in turn relates to a broader debate in the sciences about scientific realism, which applies also to quantum physics.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Höne, K. E. (27 April 2017). "Quantum Social Science". Oxford Bibliographies.  
         ^ 
           de Freitas, E.; Sinclair, N. (2018). "The Quantum Mind: Alternative Ways of Reasoning with Uncertainty". Canadian Journal of Science, Mathematics and Technology Education. 1 (3): 271–283.  
         ^ 
           Bohr, N. (1933). "Light and Life". Nature. 131: 421–423. doi:10.1038/131421a0.  
         ^ 
           Dyson, F. (1979). Disturbing the Universe. Basic Books. pp.&nbsp;168–172.  
         ^ 
           Bohm, D. (1951). Quantum Theory. Prentice Hall.  
         ^ 
           Bohm, D. (1990). "A new theory of the relationship of mind and matter". Philosophical Psychology. 3 (2): 271–286. doi:10.1080/09515089008573004.  
         ^ 
           Zohar, D. (1990). The Quantum Self: Human Nature and Consciousness Defined by the New Physics. William Morrow.  
         ^ 
           Zohar, D.; Marshall, I. (1993). The Quantum Society: Mind, Physics, and a New Social Vision. Bloomsbury.  
         ^ 
           Barad, K. (2007). Meeting the Universe Halfway: Quantum Physics and the Entanglement of Matter and Meaning. Duke University Press. p.&nbsp;24.  
         ^ 
           Aerts, D.; Aerts, S. (1994). "Applications of quantum statistics in psychological studies of decision processes". Foundations of Science. 1: 85–97.  
         ^ 
           Khrennikov, A. (1999). "Classical and Quantum Mechanics on Information Spaces with Applications to Cognitive, Psychological, Social, and Anomalous Phenomena". Foundations of Physics. 29 (7): 1065–1098.  
         ^ 
           Busemeyer, J.R. (2013). "Introduction to Quantum Probability for Social and Behavioural Scientists". In Rudolph, L. (ed.). Qualitative Mathematics for the Social Sciences: Mathematical Models for Research on Cultural Dynamics. Routledge. pp.&nbsp;75–103.  
         ^ 
           Atmanspacher, H.; Römer, H.; Walach, H. (2002). "Weak Quantum Theory: Complementarity and Entanglement in Physics and Beyond". Foundations of Physics. 32 (3): 379–406. doi:10.1023/a:1014809312397.  
         ^ 
           Walach, H.; von Stillfried, N. (1994). "Generalised Quantum Theory: Basic Idea and General Intuition; A Background Story and Overview". Axiomathes. 21 (2): 185–209.  
         ^ 
           Haven, E.; Khrennikov, A. (2013). Quantum Social Science. Cambridge University Press.  
         ^ a b c 
           Wendt, A. (2015). Quantum Mind and Social Science: Unifying Physical and Social Ontology. Cambridge University Press.  
         ^ 
           Wendt, A. (2006). "Social Theory as Cartesian Science: An Auto-Critique from a Quantum Perspective". In Guzzini, S.; Leander, A. (eds.). Constructivism and International Relations: Alexander Wendt and his Critics. Routledge. pp.&nbsp;181–219.  
         ^ 
           Busemeyer, J. R.; Bruza, P. (2012). Quantum Models of Cognition and Decision. Cambridge University Press.  
         ^ 
           Wang, Z.; Solloway, T.; Shiffrin, R. S.; Busemeyer, J. R. (2014). "Context effects produced by question orders reveal quantum nature of human judgments". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 111 (26): 9431–6. doi:10.1073/pnas.1407756111. PMC&nbsp;4084470.  
         ^ 
           Lewis, F. (6 November 1983). "The Quantum Mechanics of Politics". New York Times.  
         ^ 
           Shultz, G. P. (30 January 1998). "Diplomacy, Wired". Hoover Digest.  
         ^ 
           Der Derian, J. (2011). "Quantum Diplomacy, German–US Relations and the Psychogeography of Berlin". The Hague Journal of Diplomacy. 6 (3–4): 373–392.  
         ^ 
           Zohar, D. (16 November 2018). "Talk at the David Rockefeller Fellows Lunch - 42nd European Meeting of the Trilateral Commission".  
         ^ 
           Fuller, S. (2018). "A quantum leap for social theory". Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour. 48 (2): 177–182. doi:10.1111/jtsb.12166.  
         ^ 
           Arfi, B.; Kessler, O. (2018). "Forum Introduction: Social Theory Going Quantum-Theoretic? Questions, Alternatives and Challenges". Millennium: Journal of International Studies. 47 (1): 67–73. doi:10.1177/0305829818779510.  
         ^ 
           Katzenstein, P. J. (2018). "The Second Coming? Reflections on a Global Theory of International Relations". The Chinese Journal of International Politics. 11 (4): 373–390. doi:10.1093/cjip/poy012.  
         ^ 
           Sheng, Andrew (July 2019). "A New Bretton Woods Vision for a Global Green New Deal". Revitalizing the Spirit of Bretton Woods: 50 Perspectives on the Future of the Global Economic System. Bretton Woods Committee. pp.&nbsp;360–367.  
         ^ 
           Waldner, D. (2017). "Schrödinger's Cat and the Dog That Didn't Bark: Why Quantum Mechanics is (Probably) Irrelevant to the Social Sciences". Critical Review. 29 (2): 1–35.  
         ^ 
           Donald, MJ. (2018). "We are not walking wave functions. A response to "Quantum Mind and Social Science" by Alexander Wendt". Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour. 48: 157–161.  
         ^ 
           Little, D. (2018). "Entangling the social: Comments on Alexander Wendt, Quantum Mind and Social Science". Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour. 48: 167–176.  
         ^ 
           Tegmark, M. (2000). "Why the Brain Is Probably Not a Quantum Computer". Information Sciences. 128 (3): 155–179.  
         ^ 
           Arfi, B. (2018). "Challenges to a Quantum-Theoretic Social Theory". Millennium: Journal of International Studies. 47 (1): 99–113. doi:10.1177/0305829818781691.  
         ^ 
           Murphy, M.P.A. (2012). "Analogy or Actuality? How Social Scientists Are Taking the Quantum Leap". Quantum Social Theory for Critical International Relations Theorists. Palgrave Macmillan. pp.&nbsp;37–57.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Quantum mechanics
           
         
         
          Background
          
            
            
             Introduction 
             History 
              
               Timeline
               
             Classical mechanics 
             Old quantum theory 
             Glossary
             
           
         
         
          Fundamentals
          
            
            
             Born rule 
             Bra–ket notation 
              Complementarity 
             Density matrix 
             Energy level 
              
               Ground state 
               Excited state 
               Degenerate levels 
               Zero-point energy
               
             Entanglement 
             Hamiltonian 
             Interference 
             Decoherence 
             Measurement 
             Nonlocality 
             Quantum state 
             Superposition 
             Tunnelling 
             Scattering theory 
             Symmetry in quantum mechanics 
             Uncertainty 
             Wave function 
              
               Collapse 
               Wave–particle duality
              
             
           
         
         
          Formulations
          
            
            
             Formulations 
             Heisenberg 
             Interaction 
             Matrix mechanics 
             Schrödinger 
             Path integral formulation 
             Phase space
             
           
         
         
          Equations
          
            
            
             Dirac 
             Klein–Gordon 
             Pauli 
             Rydberg 
             Schrödinger
             
           
         
         
          Interpretations
          
            
            
             Interpretations 
             Bayesian 
             Consistent histories 
             Copenhagen 
             de Broglie–Bohm 
             Ensemble 
             Hidden-variable 
              
               Local
               
             Many-worlds 
             Objective collapse 
             Quantum logic 
             Relational 
             Transactional 
             Van Neumann-Wigner
             
           
         
         
          Experiments
          
            
            
             Bell's inequality 
             Davisson–Germer 
             Delayed-choice quantum eraser 
             Double-slit 
             Franck–Hertz 
             Mach–Zehnder interferometer 
             Elitzur–Vaidman 
             Popper 
             Quantum eraser 
             Stern–Gerlach 
             Wheeler's delayed choice
             
           
         
         
          Science
          
            
            
             Quantum biology 
             Quantum chemistry 
             Quantum chaos 
             Quantum cosmology 
             Quantum differential calculus 
             Quantum dynamics 
             Quantum geometry 
             Quantum measurement problem 
             Quantum stochastic calculus 
             Quantum spacetime
             
           
         
         
          Technology
          
            
            
             Quantum algorithms 
             Quantum amplifier 
             Quantum bus 
             Quantum cellular automata 
              
               Quantum finite automata
               
             Quantum channel 
             Quantum circuit 
             Quantum complexity theory 
             Quantum computing 
              
               Timeline
               
             Quantum cryptography 
             Quantum electronics 
             Quantum error correction 
             Quantum imaging 
             Quantum image processing 
             Quantum information 
             Quantum key distribution 
             Quantum logic 
             Quantum logic gates 
             Quantum machine 
             Quantum machine learning 
             Quantum metamaterial 
             Quantum metrology 
             Quantum network 
             Quantum neural network 
             Quantum optics 
             Quantum programming 
             Quantum sensing 
             Quantum simulator 
             Quantum teleportation
             
           
         
         
          Extensions
          
            
            
             Casimir effect 
             Quantum statistical mechanics 
             Quantum field theory 
              
               History
               
             Quantum gravity 
             Relativistic quantum mechanics
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Physics portal 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Quantum_social_science&amp;oldid=1065050185"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Quantum mechanics
       Social sciences
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All accuracy disputes
       Articles with disputed statements from January 2021
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 11 January 2022, at 15:05&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
