
 
  
   
  Science studies - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Science studies 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Research area analyzing scientific expertise
       
      
      
       See also: Science and technology studies, Technology and society, Sociology of scientific knowledge, and Social construction of technology
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Metascience.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that this article be merged into Science and technology studies. (Discuss) Proposed since September 2021.
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article may need to be rewritten to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards, as the article does not provide a coherent and comprehensive account of science studies. You can help. The talk page may contain suggestions. (September 2019)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Sociology
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Key themes
           
            
            
             Society 
             Globalization 
             Human behavior 
             Human environmental impact 
             Identity 
             Industrial revolutions 3 &amp; 4 
             Social complexity 
             Social construct 
             Social environment 
             Social equality 
             Social equity 
             Social power 
             Social stratification 
             Social structure
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Perspectives
           
            
            
             Conflict theory 
             Critical theory 
             Structural functionalism 
             Positivism 
             Social constructionism 
             Symbolic interactionism
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches
           
            
            
             Aging 
             Architecture 
             Art 
             Astrosociology 
             Body 
             Criminology 
             Consciousness 
             Culture 
             Death 
             Demography 
             Deviance 
             Disaster 
             Economic 
             Education 
             Emotion (Jealousy) 
             Environmental 
             Family 
             Feminist 
             Fiscal 
             Food 
             Gender 
             Generations 
             Health 
             Historical 
             Immigration 
             Industrial 
             Internet 
             Jewry 
             Knowledge 
             Language 
             Law 
             Leisure 
             Literature 
             Marxist 
             Mathematic 
             Medical 
             Military 
             Music 
             Peace, war, and social conflict 
             Philosophy 
             Political 
             Public 
             Punishment 
             Race and ethnicity 
             Religion 
             Rural 
             Science (History of science) 
             Social movements 
             Social psychology 
             Sociocybernetics 
             Sociology 
             Space 
             Sport 
             Technology 
             Terrorism 
             Urban 
             Utopian 
             Victimology 
             Visual
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Quantitative 
             Qualitative 
             Comparative 
             Computational 
             Ethnographic 
             Conversation analysis 
             Historical 
             Interview 
             Mathematical 
             Network analysis 
             Social experiment 
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            People
           
           
            East Asia 
            
             1900s 
              
               Fei Xiaotong
              
             
            South Asia   
            
             1800s 
              
               G.S Ghurye
               
             1900s 
              
               Irawati Karve 
               M. N. Srinivas
              
             
            Middle East  
            
             1400s 
              
               Ibn Khaldun
              
             
            Europe  
            
             1700s 
              
               Auguste Comte 
               Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès
               
             1800s 
              
               Émile Durkheim 
               Harriet Martineau 
               Karl Marx 
               Georg Simmel 
               Herbert Spencer 
               Ferdinand Tönnies 
               Max Weber
               
             1900s 
              
               Michel Foucault 
               Jürgen Habermas
              
             
            North America  
            
             1800s 
              
               Jane Addams 
               Ernest Burgess 
               W.E.B. Du Bois 
               George Herbert Mead 
               Thorstein Veblen
               
             1900s 
              
               James Coleman 
               Patricia Hill Collins 
               Erving Goffman 
               Paul Lazarsfeld 
               Charles Wright Mills 
               Robert K. Merton 
               Theda Skocpol 
               Dorothy E. Smith
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Bibliography 
             Terminology 
             Journals 
             Organizations 
             People 
             Timeline 
             By country
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Society portal 
           WikiProject Sociology
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Science studies is an interdisciplinary research area that seeks to situate scientific expertise in broad social, historical, and philosophical contexts. It uses various methods to analyze the production, representation and reception of scientific knowledge and its epistemic and semiotic role. 
      Similarly to cultural studies, science studies are defined by the subject of their research and encompass a large range of different theoretical and methodological perspectives and practices. The interdisciplinary approach may include and borrow methods from the humanities, natural and formal sciences, from scientometrics to ethnomethodology or cognitive science. Science studies have a certain importance for evaluation and science policy. Overlapping with the field of science, technology and society, practitioners study the relationship between science and technology, and the interaction of expert and lay knowledge in the public realm.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Scope 
        2 History of the field 
        3 Application on natural and man made hazards 
          
          3.1 Sheepfarming after Chernobyl 
          3.2 Science studies on volcanology 
           
        4 Experts and democracy 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Bibliography 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Scope 
      The field started with a tendency toward navel-gazing: it was extremely self-conscious in its genesis and applications. From early concerns with scientific discourse, practitioners soon started to deal with the relation of scientific expertise to politics and lay people. Practical examples include bioethics, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), pollution, global warming, biomedical sciences, physical sciences, natural hazard predictions, the (alleged) impact of the Chernobyl disaster in the UK, generation and review of science policy and risk governance and its historical and geographic contexts. While staying a discipline with multiple metanarratives, the fundamental concern is about the role of the perceived expert in providing governments and local authorities with information from which they can make decisions. 
      The approach poses various important questions about what makes an expert and how experts and their authority are to be distinguished from the lay population and interacts with the values and policy making process in liberal democratic societies. 
      Practitioners examine the forces within and through which scientists investigate specific phenomena such as  
      
       technological milieus, epistemic instruments and cultures and laboratory life (compare Karin Knorr-Cetina, Bruno Latour, Hans-Jörg Rheinberger) 
       science and technology (e.g. Wiebe Bijker, Trevor Pinch, Thomas P. Hughes) 
       science, technology and society (e.g. Peter Weingart, Ulrike Felt, Helga Nowotny and Reiner Grundmann) 
       language and rhetoric of science (e.g. Charles Bazerman, Alan G. Gross, Greg Myers) 
       aesthetics of science and visual culture in science (u.a. Peter Geimer), the role of aesthetic criteria in scientific practice (compare mathematical beauty) and the relation between emotion, cognition and rationality in the development of science. 
       semiotic studies of creative processes, as in the discovery, conceptualization, and realization of new ideas. or the interaction and management of different forms of knowledge in cooperative research. 
       large-scale research and research institutions, e.g. particle colliders (Sharon Traweek) 
       research ethics, science policy, and the role of the university.
       
      History of the field 
      Maria Ossowska and Stanislaw Ossowski started to introduce the concept in the 1930s. Thomas Kuhn's Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962) led to an increased interest in not only the history of science, but also its philosophical underpinnings. Kuhn's work established that the history of science was less a linear succession of discoveries, but rather the concept of paradigms to the philosophy of science. Paradigms are broader, socio-intellectual constructs that determine which types of truth claims are permissible. Science studies try to identify crucial dichotomies as in science and technology, nature and culture, theories and experiments; science and fine art leading to the separation of various science fields and practices. Sociology of scientific knowledge developed at the University of Edinburgh, where David Bloor and his colleagues developed what has been termed the 'strong programme'. The strong programme proposed that both 'true' and 'false' scientific theories should be treated the same way. Both are caused by social factors or conditions, such as cultural context and self-interest. All human knowledge, as something that exists in the human cognition, must contain some social components in its formation process. 
      It proved difficult, however, to address natural science topics with sociological methods, as was abundantly evidenced by the US science wars. The use of a deconstructive approach (as for works on arts or religion) on natural sciences risked to endanger not only the "hard facts" of natural sciences, but as well the objectivity and positivist tradition of sociology itself. The view on scientific knowledge production as a (at least partial) social construct was not easily accepted. Latour and others identified a dichotomy crucial for modernity, the division between nature (things, objects) as being transcendent, allowing to detect them, and society (the subject, the state) as immanent as being artificial, constructed. The dichotomy allowed for a mass production of things (technical-natural hybrids) and large scale global issues that in the meanwhile threaten endangered the distinction as such. E.g. We Have Never Been Modern asks to reconnect the social and natural worlds returning to the premodern use of "thing"—addressing objects as hybrids made and scrutinized by the public interaction of people, things and concepts. 
      Science studies scholars such as Trevor Pinch and Steve Woolgar started already in the 1980s to involve "technology", and called their field "science, technology and society". This "turn to technology" brought science studies into communication with academics in science, technology, and society programs. 
      More recently, a novel approach known as mapping controversies has been gaining momentum among science studies practitioners, and was introduced as a course for students in engineering, and architecture schools. In 2002 Harry Collins and Robert Evans asked for a third wave of science studies (a pun on The Third Wave), namely studies of expertise and experience answering to recent tendencies to dissolve the boundary between experts and the public.  
      Application on natural and man made hazards 
      Sheepfarming after Chernobyl 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Herdwicks grazing in Cumbria
        
       
       
      A showcase of the rather complex problems of scientific information and its interaction with lay persons is Brian Wynne's study of Sheepfarming in Cumbria after the Chernobyl disaster. He elaborated on the responses of sheep farmers in Cumbria, who had been subjected to administrative restrictions because of radioactive contamination, allegedly caused by the nuclear accident at Chernobyl in 1986. The sheep farmers suffered economic losses and their resistance against the regulation imposed was being deemed irrational and not adequate. It turned out that the source of radioactivity was actually the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing complex; thus, the experts who were responsible for the duration of the restrictions were completely mistaken. The example lead to various attempts to better involve local knowledge and experience of lay people and to assess its often highly geographically and historically defined background.  
      Science studies on volcanology 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The aftermath of the 2007 Soufrière Hills eruption in Montserrat
        
       
       
      Donovan et al. (2012) used social studies of volcanology to investigate the generation of knowledge and expert advice on various active volcanoes. It contains a survey of volcanologists carried out during 2008 and 2009 and interviews with scientists in the UK, Montserrat, Italy and Iceland during fieldwork seasons. Donovan et al. (2012) asked the experts about the felt purpose of volcanology and what they considered the most important eruptions in historical time. The survey tries to identify eruptions that had an influence on volcanology as a science and to assess the role of scientists in policymaking. 
      A main focus was on the impact of the Montserrat eruption 1997. The eruption, a classical example of the black swan theory directly killed (only) 19 persons. However the outbreak had major impacts on the local society and destroyed important infrastructure, as the island's airport. About 7,000 people, or two-thirds of the population, left Montserrat; 4,000 to the United Kingdom. 
      The Montserrat case put immense pressure on volcanologists, as their expertise suddenly became the primary driver of various public policy approaches. The science studies approach provided valuable insights in that situation. There were various miscommunications among scientists. Matching scientific uncertainty (typical of volcanic unrest) and the request for a single unified voice for political advice was a challenge. The Montserrat Volcanologists began to use statistical elicitation models to estimate the probabilities of particular events, a rather subjective method, but allowing to synthesizing consensus and experience-based expertise step by step. It involved as well local knowledge and experience. 
      Volcanology as a science currently faces a shift of its epistemological foundations of volcanology. The science started to involve more research into risk assessment and risk management. It requires new, integrated methodologies for knowledge collection that transcend scientific disciplinary boundaries but combine qualitative and quantitative outcomes in a structured whole.  
      Experts and democracy 
      Science has become a major force in Western democratic societies, which depend on innovation and technology (compare Risk society) to address its risks. Beliefs about science can be very different from those of the scientists themselves, for reasons of e.g. moral values, epistemology or political motivations.The designation of expertise as authoritative in the interaction with lay people and decision makers of all kind is nevertheless challenged in contemporary risk societies, as suggested by scholars who follow Ulrich Beck's theorisation. The role of expertise in contemporary democracies is an important theme for debate among science studies scholars. Some argue for a more widely distributed, pluralist understanding of expertise (Sheila Jasanoff and Brian Wynne, for example), while others argue for a more nuanced understanding of the idea of expertise and its social functions (Collins and Evans, for example).  
      See also 
      
       Logology (study of science) 
       Merton thesis 
       Public awareness of science 
       Science and technology studies 
       Science and technology studies in India 
       Social construction of technology 
       Sociology of scientific knowledge 
       Sokal affair
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Amy Donovan, Clive Oppenheimer, Michael Bravo. Social studies of volcanology: knowledge generation and expert advice on active volcanoes. Bulletin of Volcanology, Springer Verlag (Germany), 2012, 74 (3), pp.677-689. doi:&lt;10.1007/s00445-011-0547-z insu-00691620  
        ^ Martello M (2004) Global change science and the Arctic citizen.Sci Public Policy 31(2):107–115  
        ^ Jasanoff S (ed) (2004) States of knowledge: the co-production of science and social order. Routledge, Abingdon  
        ^ International Studies in the Philosophy of Science Volume 16, Issue 1, 2002, Recent work on aesthetics of science DOI:10.1080/02698590120118783 James W. McAllister pages 7-11, 21 Jul 2010  
        ^ Zeichen für Kunst: Zur Organisierbarkeit von Kreativität Detlev Nothnagel, ZfS, Band 29, Heft 4/2007 ZfS, Band 29, Heft 4/2007 ISBN&nbsp;978-3-86057-887-2  
        ^ Organisierte Kreativität: Die vielen Gesichter der Innovation, Rene J.Jorna, in Zeichen für Kunst: Zur Organisierbarkeit von Kreativität Detlev Nothnagel, ZfS, Band 29, Heft 4/2007 ZfS, Band 29, Heft 4/2007 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-3-86057-887-2  
        ^ 
          Traweek, Sharon (1992). Beamtimes and lifetimes: the world of high energy physicists. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780674044449.  
        ^ Mario Biagioli: The science studies reader. Routledge, New York 1999, 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-415-91867-7  
        ^ Derek de Solla Price: Little Science, Big Science. Von der Studierstube zur Großforschung. Suhrkamp, 1982, 
          ISBN&nbsp;978-3518076484.  
        ^ Matthias Kölbel: Wissensmanagement in der Wissenschaft, Berlin: Gesellschaft für Wissenschaftsforschung e.V. c/o Inst. f. Bibliotheks- und Informationswissenschaft der Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 2002, elektronische Bereitstellung 2011.  
        ^ David Bloor, "The strengths of the strong programme." Scientific rationality: The sociological turn (Springer Netherlands, 1984) pp. 75-94.  
        ^ Wiebe E. Bijker, et al. The social construction of technological systems: New directions in the sociology and history of technology (MIT press, 2012)  
        ^ Harry M. Collins, "Introduction: Stages in the empirical programme of relativism." Social studies of science (1981): 3-10. in JSTOR  
        ^ a b 
          Latour, Bruno (March 2000). "When things strike back: a possible contribution of 'science studies' to the social sciences" (PDF). British Journal of Sociology. 51 (1): 107–123. doi:10.1111/j.1468-4446.2000.00107.x.  
        ^ In premodern times (and various languages) the term both meant an object and an assembly  
        ^ 
          Lash, Scott (1999). Objects that judge: Latour's parliament of things, in another modernity, a different rationality. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN&nbsp;9780631164999.  
        ^ An Introduction to Science and Technology Studies Sergio Sismondo John Wiley &amp; Sons, 17.08.2011.  
        ^ MIT web.mit.edu Retrieved on 2009-02-21  
        ^ Ecoles Polytechniques Fédérales de Lausanne Archived 2012-07-12 at archive.today mappingcontroversies.epfl.ch Retrieved on 2009-02-21  
        ^ University of Manchester Archived 2009-05-15 at the Wayback Machine mappingcontroversies.co.uk Retrieved on 2009-02-16  
        ^ Social Studies of Science April 2002 vol. 32 no. 2 235-296 The Third Wave of Science Studies Studies of Expertise and Experience H.M. Collins and Robert Evans doi: 10.1177/0306312702032002003  
        ^ a b c d Wynne B (1989) Sheepfarming after Chernobyl: a case study in communicating scientific information. Environment 31(2):33–39.  
        ^ 
          Lash, Scott; Szerszynski, Bronislaw; Wynne, Brian (1996). Risk, environment and modernity: towards a new ecology. Theory, culture &amp; society. London: Sage Publications. doi:10.4135/9781446221983. ISBN&nbsp;978-0803979376.  
        ^ Donovan et al. (2012) cite Taleb NN (2007) The black swan: the impact of the highly improbable. Allen Lane, London.  
        ^ 
          "BBC country profile: Montserrat". BBC News. 22 September 2009. Retrieved 2008-03-08.  
        ^ 
          "Montserrat evacuation remembered". BBC. 12 September 2005. Retrieved 19 November 2010.  
        ^ Horlick-Jones T, Sime J (2004) Living on the border: knowledge, risk and transdisciplinarity. Futures 36(4):441  
        ^ 
          Ulrich Beck (1992). Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity. New Delhi: Sage Publications. ISBN&nbsp;978-0803983465. (in German: Die Risikogesellschaft 1986)  
        ^ 
          Collins, Harry; Evans, Robert (2007). Rethinking Expertise. University of Chicago Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0226113623.  
        ^ 
          Collins, Harry (2004). "Interactional expertise as a third kind of knowledge". Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences. 3 (2): 125–143. doi:10.1023/B:PHEN.0000040824.89221.1a. ISSN&nbsp;1568-7759. S2CID&nbsp;143072688.  
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       
        Science studies, general
       
       
      
       Bauchspies, W., Jennifer Croissant and Sal Restivo: Science, Technology, and Society: A Sociological Perspective (Oxford: Blackwell, 2005). 
       Biagioli, Mario, ed. The Science Studies Reader (New York: Routledge, 1999). 
       Bloor, David; Barnes, Barry &amp; Henry, John, Scientific knowledge: a sociological analysis (Chicago: University Press, 1996). 
       Gross, Alan. Starring the Text: The Place of Rhetoric in Science Studies. Carbondale: SIU Press, 2006. 
       Fuller, Steve, The Philosophy of Science and Technology Studies (New York: Routledge, 2006). 
       Hess, David J. Science Studies: An Advanced Introduction (New York: NYU Press, 1997). 
       Jasanoff, Sheila, ed. Handbook of science and technology studies (Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1995). 
       Latour, Bruno, "The Last Critique," Harper's Magazine (April 2004): 15–20. 
       Latour, Bruno. Science in Action. Cambridge. 1987. 
       Latour, Bruno, "Do You Believe in Reality: News from the Trenches of the Science Wars," in Pandora's Hope (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1999) 
       Vinck, Dominique. The Sociology of Scientific Work. The Fundamental Relationship between Science and Society (Cheltenham: Edward Elgar, 2010). 
       Wyer, Mary; Donna Cookmeyer; Mary Barbercheck, eds. Women, Science and Technology: A Reader in Feminist Science Studies, Routledge 200 
       Haraway, Donna J. "Situated Knowledges: The Science Question in Feminism and the Privilege of Partial Perspective," in Simians, Cyborgs, and Women: the Reinvention of Nature (New York: Routledge, 1991), 183–201. Originally published in Feminist Studies, Vol. 14, No. 3 (Autumn, 1988), pp.&nbsp;575–599. (available online) 
       Foucault, Michel, "Truth and Power," in Power/Knowledge (New York: Pantheon Books, 1997), 109–133. 
       Porter, Theodore M. Trust in Numbers: The Pursuit of Objectivity in Science and Public Life (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1995). 
       Restivo, Sal: "Science, Society, and Values: Toward a Sociology of Objectivity" (Lehigh PA: Lehigh University Press, 1994).
       
      
       
        Medicine and biology
       
       
      
       
        Dumit, Joseph (2003). Picturing Personhood: Brain Scans and Biomedical Identity. Princeton: Princeton University Press. 
       
        Fadiman, Anne (1997). The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. 
       
        Martin, Emily (1999). "Toward an Anthropology of Immunology: The Body as Nation State". In Biagioli, Mario (ed.). The Science Studies Reader. New York: Routledge. pp.&nbsp;358–71.
       
      
       
        Media, culture, society and technology
       
       
      
       Hancock, Jeff. Deception and design: the impact of communication technology on lying behavior 
       Lessig, Lawrence. Free Culture. Penguin USA, 2004. 
        ISBN&nbsp;1-59420-006-8 
       MacKenzie, Donald. The Social Shaping of Technology Open University Press: 2nd ed. 1999. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-335-19913-5 
       Mitchell, William J. Rethinking Media Change Thorburn and Jennings eds. Cambridge, Massachusetts&nbsp;: MIT Press, 2003. 
       Postman, Neil. Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business. Penguin USA, 1985. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-670-80454-1 
       Rheingold, Howard. Smart Mobs: The Next Social Revolution. Cambridge: Mass., Perseus Publishing. 2002.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Science studies.
         
       
       
      
       Science Studies, ScienceDirect webpage hosting relevant academic articles 
       Sociology of Science, an introductory article by Joseph Ben-David &amp; Teresa A. Sullivan, Annual Review of Sociology, 1975 
       The Incommensurability of Scientific and Poetic Knowledge 
       University of Washington Science Studies Network
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Links to related articles
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Philosophy of science
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    Concepts
                    
                      
                      
                       Analysis 
                       Analytic–synthetic distinction 
                       A priori and a posteriori 
                       Causality 
                       Commensurability 
                       Consilience 
                       Construct 
                       Creative synthesis 
                       Demarcation problem 
                       Empirical evidence 
                       Explanatory power 
                       Fact 
                       Falsifiability 
                       Feminist method 
                       Functional contextualism
                       
                      
                       Ignoramus et ignorabimus 
                       Inductive reasoning 
                       Intertheoretic reduction 
                       Inquiry 
                       Nature 
                       Objectivity 
                       Observation 
                       Paradigm 
                       Problem of induction 
                       Scientific law 
                       Scientific method 
                       Scientific pluralism 
                       Scientific revolution 
                       Scientific theory 
                       Testability 
                       Theory choice 
                       Theory-ladenness 
                       Underdetermination 
                       Unity of science
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Metatheoryof science
                    
                      
                      
                       Coherentism 
                       Confirmation holism 
                       Constructive empiricism 
                       Constructive realism 
                       Constructivist epistemology 
                       Contextualism 
                       Conventionalism 
                       Deductive-nomological model 
                       Hypothetico-deductive model 
                       Inductionism 
                       Epistemological anarchism 
                       Evolutionism 
                       Fallibilism 
                       Foundationalism 
                       Instrumentalism 
                       Pragmatism 
                       Model-dependent realism 
                       Naturalism 
                       Physicalism 
                       Positivism&nbsp;/ Reductionism&nbsp;/ Determinism 
                       Rationalism&nbsp;/ Empiricism 
                       Received view&nbsp;/ Semantic view of theories 
                       Scientific realism&nbsp;/ Anti-realism 
                       Scientific essentialism 
                       Scientific formalism 
                       Scientific skepticism 
                       Scientism 
                       Structuralism 
                       Uniformitarianism 
                       Vitalism
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Philosophy of
                    
                      
                      
                       Physics 
                        
                         thermal and statistical 
                         Motion
                         
                       Chemistry 
                       Biology 
                       Geography 
                       Social science 
                       Technology 
                        
                         Engineering 
                         Artificial intelligence 
                         Computer science
                         
                       Information 
                       Mind 
                       Psychiatry 
                       Psychology 
                       Perception 
                       Space and time
                       
                     
                   
                   
                    Related topics
                    
                      
                      
                       Alchemy 
                       Criticism of science 
                       Descriptive science 
                       Epistemology 
                       Faith and rationality 
                       Hard and soft science 
                       History and philosophy of science 
                       History of science 
                       History of evolutionary thought 
                       Logic 
                       Metaphysics 
                       Normative science 
                       Pseudoscience 
                       Relationship between religion and science 
                       Rhetoric of science 
                       Science studies 
                       Sociology of scientific knowledge 
                       Sociology of scientific ignorance
                       
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Philosophers of science by era
                     
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      
                       
                        Ancient
                        
                          
                          
                           Plato 
                           Aristotle 
                           Stoicism 
                           Epicureans
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Medieval
                        
                          
                          
                           Averroes 
                           Avicenna 
                           Roger Bacon 
                           William of Ockham 
                           Hugh of Saint Victor 
                           Dominicus Gundissalinus 
                           Robert Kilwardby
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Early modern
                        
                          
                          
                           Francis Bacon 
                           Thomas Hobbes 
                           René Descartes 
                           Galileo Galilei 
                           Pierre Gassendi 
                           Isaac Newton 
                           David Hume
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Late modern
                        
                          
                          
                           Immanuel Kant 
                           Friedrich Schelling 
                           William Whewell 
                           Auguste Comte 
                           John Stuart Mill 
                           Herbert Spencer 
                           Wilhelm Wundt 
                           Charles Sanders Peirce 
                           Wilhelm Windelband 
                           Henri Poincaré 
                           Pierre Duhem 
                           Rudolf Steiner 
                           Karl Pearson
                           
                         
                       
                       
                        Contemporary
                        
                          
                          
                           Alfred North Whitehead 
                           Bertrand Russell 
                           Albert Einstein 
                           Otto Neurath 
                           C. D. Broad 
                           Michael Polanyi 
                           Hans Reichenbach 
                           Rudolf Carnap 
                           Karl Popper 
                           Carl Gustav Hempel 
                           W. V. O. Quine 
                           Thomas Kuhn 
                           Imre Lakatos 
                           Paul Feyerabend 
                           Jürgen Habermas 
                           Ian Hacking 
                           Bas van Fraassen 
                           Larry Laudan 
                           Daniel Dennett
                           
                         
                       
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Category 
                   &nbsp;Philosophy portal 
                   &nbsp;Science portal
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Science and the public
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Citizen science 
                   Community-based participatory research 
                   Conversazione 
                   March for Science 
                   Physics outreach 
                   Popular science 
                   Public awareness of science 
                   Public science 
                   Science by press conference 
                   Science Café 
                   Science communication 
                   Science fair 
                   Science festival 
                   Science journalism 
                   Science museum 
                   Science outreach 
                   Science policy 
                   The Amateur Scientist
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Science and technology studies
                 
               
               
                Economics
                
                  
                  
                   Economics of science 
                   Economics of scientific knowledge
                   
                 
               
               
                History
                
                  
                  
                   History and philosophy of science 
                   History of science 
                    
                     and technology
                     
                   History of technology
                   
                 
               
               
                Philosophy
                
                  
                  
                   Anthropocene 
                   Antipositivism 
                   Empiricism 
                   Fuzzy logic 
                   Neo-Luddism 
                   Philosophy of science 
                   Philosophy of social science 
                   Philosophy of technology 
                   Positivism 
                   Postpositivism 
                   Religion and science 
                   Scientism 
                   Social constructivism 
                   Social epistemology 
                   Transhumanism
                   
                 
               
               
                Sociology
                
                  
                  
                   Actor–network theory 
                   Social 
                    
                     construction of technology 
                     shaping of technology
                     
                   Sociology of knowledge 
                    
                     scientific
                     
                   Sociology of scientific ignorance 
                   Sociology of the history of science 
                   Sociotechnology 
                   Strong programme
                   
                 
               
               
                Sciencestudies
                
                  
                  
                   Antiscience 
                   Bibliometrics 
                   Boundary-work 
                   Consilience 
                   Criticism of science 
                   Demarcation problem 
                   Double hermeneutic 
                   Logology 
                   Mapping controversies 
                   Metascience 
                   Paradigm shift 
                    
                     black swan events
                     
                   Pseudoscience 
                   Psychology of science 
                   Science 
                    
                     citizen 
                     communication 
                     education 
                     normal 
                     Neo-colonial 
                     post-normal 
                     rhetoric 
                     wars
                     
                   Scientific 
                    
                     community 
                     consensus 
                     controversy 
                     dissent 
                     enterprise 
                     literacy 
                     method 
                     misconduct 
                     priority 
                     skepticism
                     
                   Scientocracy 
                   Scientometrics 
                   Team science 
                   Traditional knowledge 
                    
                     ecological
                     
                   Unity of science 
                   Women in science 
                    
                     STEM
                    
                   
                 
               
               
                Technologystudies
                
                  
                  
                   Co-production 
                   Cyborg anthropology 
                   Dematerialization 
                   Digital anthropology 
                   Digital media use and mental health 
                   Early adopter 
                   Hype cycle 
                   Innovation 
                    
                     diffusion 
                     disruptive 
                     linear model 
                     system 
                     user
                     
                   Leapfrogging 
                   Normalization process theory 
                   Reverse salient 
                   Skunkworks project 
                   Sociotechnical system 
                   Technical change 
                   Technocracy 
                   Technoscience 
                    
                     feminist
                     
                   Technological 
                    
                     change 
                     convergence 
                     determinism 
                     revolution 
                     transitions
                     
                   Technology 
                    
                     and society 
                     criticism of 
                     dynamics 
                     theories of 
                     transfer
                     
                   Engineering studies 
                   Women in engineering 
                   Financial technology
                   
                 
               
               
                Policy
                
                  
                  
                   Academic freedom 
                   Digital divide 
                   Evidence-based policy 
                   Factor 10 
                   Funding of science 
                   Horizon scanning 
                   Science policy 
                    
                     history of 
                     science of
                     
                   Politicization of science 
                   Regulation of science 
                   Research ethics 
                   Right to science 
                   Socio-scientific issues 
                   Technology assessment 
                   Technology policy 
                   Transition management
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Portals 
                    
                     Science 
                     History of science 
                     Technology
                     
                    Category 
                    
                     Associations 
                     Journals 
                     Scholars
                    
                   
                 
               
              
             
             
            
             
            
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  
                   v
                   t
                   e
                  
                 
                 
                  Social sciences
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                   Outline 
                   History 
                   Index
                   
                 
               
               
                Primary
                
                  
                  
                   Anthropology (archaeology 
                   cultural 
                   linguistics 
                   social) 
                   Economics (microeconomics 
                   macroeconomics 
                   econometrics 
                   mathematical) 
                   Geography (physical 
                   human 
                   integrated 
                   geomatics 
                   regional) 
                   History 
                    
                     cultural 
                     auxiliary sciences 
                     economic 
                     human 
                     military 
                     political 
                     social
                     
                   Law (jurisprudence 
                   legal history 
                   legal systems 
                   public law 
                   private law) 
                   Political science (international relations 
                   comparative 
                   theory 
                   public policy) 
                   Psychology (abnormal 
                   cognitive 
                   developmental 
                   personality 
                   social) 
                   Sociology (criminology 
                   demography 
                   internet 
                   rural 
                   urban)
                   
                 
               
               
                Interdisciplinary
                
                  
                  
                   Administration (business 
                   public) 
                   Anthrozoology 
                   Area studies 
                   Business studies 
                   Cognitive science 
                   Communication studies 
                   Community studies 
                   Cultural studies 
                   Development studies 
                   Education 
                   Environmental (social science 
                   studies) 
                   Food studies 
                   Gender studies 
                   Global studies 
                   Historical sociology 
                   History of technology 
                   Human ecology 
                   Information science 
                   International studies 
                   Linguistics 
                   Media studies 
                   Philosophy of science (economics 
                   history 
                   psychology 
                   social science) 
                   Planning (land use 
                   regional 
                   urban) 
                   Political ecology 
                   Political economy 
                   Political sociology 
                   Public health 
                   Regional science 
                   Science and technology studies 
                   Science studies 
                    
                     historical 
                     Quantum social science
                     
                   Social work 
                   Vegan studies
                   
                 
               
               
                List
                
                  
                  
                   List of social science journals
                   
                 
               
               
                Other categorizations
                
                  
                  
                   Humanities 
                   Geisteswissenschaft 
                   Human science
                   
                 
               
               
                
                  
                  
                    Category 
                    Commons 
                   &nbsp;Society portal 
                    Wikiversity
                   
                 
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Science_studies&amp;oldid=1065923324"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Science studies
       Historiography of science
       Philosophy of science
       Pedagogy
       Science and technology studies
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template archiveis links
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be merged from September 2021
       All articles to be merged
       Wikipedia articles needing rewrite from September 2019
       All articles needing rewrite
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       日本語
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 16 January 2022, at 00:16&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
