
 
  
   
  Regional science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Regional science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Field of the social sciences
       
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Economics
        
        
          
          
           History 
           Outline 
           Index
          
        
        
          
          
           
            Branches and classifications
           
            
            
             Schools of economics 
             Mainstream economics 
             Heterodox economics 
             Economic methodology 
             Economic theory 
             Political economy 
             Microeconomics 
             Macroeconomics 
             International economics 
             Applied economics 
             Mathematical economics 
             Econometrics 
             JEL classification codes
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Concepts, theory and techniques
           
            
            
             Economic systems 
             Economic growth 
             Market 
             National accounting 
             Experimental economics 
             Computational economics 
             Game theory 
             Operations research 
             Middle income trap 
             Industrial complex
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            By application
           
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Behavioral 
             Business 
             Cultural 
             Demographic 
             Development 
             Digitization 
             Ecological 
             Economic geography 
             Economic history 
             Economic planning 
             Economic policy 
             Economic sociology 
             Economic statistics 
             Education 
             Engineering 
             Environmental 
             Evolutionary 
             Expeditionary 
             Feminist 
             Financial 
             Happiness economics 
             Health 
             Humanistic economics 
             Industrial organization 
             Information 
             Institutional 
             Knowledge 
             Labour 
             Law 
             Managerial 
             Monetary 
             Natural resource 
             Organizational 
             Personnel 
             Public economics 
             Public&nbsp;/ Social choice 
             Regional 
             Rural 
             Service 
             Socioeconomics 
             Solidarity economy 
             Urban 
             Welfare 
             Welfare economics
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable economists
           
            
            
             François Quesnay 
             Adam Smith 
             David Ricardo 
             Thomas Robert Malthus 
             John Stuart Mill 
             William Stanley Jevons 
             Léon Walras 
             Alfred Marshall 
             Irving Fisher 
             John Maynard Keynes 
             Arthur Cecil Pigou 
             John Hicks 
             Wassily Leontief 
             Paul Samuelson 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Critique of economy
           
            
            
             Critique of political economy 
             Assume a can opener
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Notable critics of economy
           
            
            
             Karl Marx 
             John Ruskin 
             Jean Baudrillard 
             more
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Lists
           
            
            
             Glossary 
             Economists 
             Publications&nbsp;(journals)
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           &nbsp;Business and Economics portal 
           &nbsp;Money portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Regional science is a field of the social sciences concerned with analytical approaches to problems that are specifically urban, rural, or regional. Topics in regional science include, but are not limited to location theory or spatial economics, location modeling, transportation, migration analysis, land use and urban development, interindustry analysis, environmental and ecological analysis, resource management, urban and regional policy analysis, geographical information systems, and spatial data analysis. In the broadest sense, any social science analysis that has a spatial dimension is embraced by regional scientists.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Origins 
        2 Seminal publications 
        3 Core journals 
        4 Academic programs 
        5 Public policy impact 
        6 Developments after 1980 
          
          6.1 New economic geography 
          6.2 Criticisms 
           
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        
       
      Origins 
      Regional science was founded in the late 1940s when some economists began to become dissatisfied with the low level of regional economic analysis and felt an urge to upgrade it. But even in this early era, the founders of regional science expected to catch the interest of people from a wide variety of disciplines. Regional science's formal roots date to the aggressive campaigns by Walter Isard and his supporters to promote the "objective" and "scientific" analysis of settlement, industrial location, and urban development. Isard targeted key universities and campaigned tirelessly. Accordingly, the Regional Science Association was founded in 1954, when the core group of scholars and practitioners held its first meetings independent from those initially held as sessions of the annual meetings of the American Economics Association. A reason for meeting independently undoubtedly was the group's desire to extend the new science beyond the rather restrictive world of economists and have natural scientists, psychologists, anthropologists, lawyers, sociologists, political scientists, planners, and geographers join the club. Now called the Regional Science Association International (RSAI), it maintains subnational and international associations, journals, and a conference circuit (notably in North America, continental Europe, Japan, and South Korea). Membership in the RSAI continues to grow.  
      Seminal publications 
      Topically speaking, regional science took off in the wake of Walter Christaller's book Die Zentralen Orte in Sűddeutschland (Verlag von Gustav Fischer, Jena, 1933; transl. Central Places in Southern Germany, 1966), soon followed by Tord Palander's (1935) Beiträge zur Standortstheorie; August Lösch's Die räumliche Ordnung der Wirtschaft (Verlag von Gustav Fischer, Jena, 1940; 2nd rev. edit., 1944; transl. The Economics of Location, 1954)&nbsp;; and Edgar M. Hoover's two books--Location Theory and the Shoe and Leather Industry (1938) and The Location of Economic Activity (1948). Other important early publications include: Edward H. Chamberlin's (1950) The Theory of Monopolistic Competition&nbsp;; François Perroux's (1950) Economic Spaces: Theory and Application; Torsten Hägerstrand's (1953) Innovationsförloppet ur Korologisk Synpunkt; Edgar S. Dunn's (1954)The Location of Agricultural Production&nbsp;; Martin J. Beckmann, C.B McGuire, and Clifford B. Winston's (1956) Studies in the Economics of Transportation; Melvin L. Greenhut's (1956) Plant Location in Theory and Practice; Gunnar Myrdal's (1957) Economic Theory and Underdeveloped Regions; Albert O. Hirschman's (1958) The Strategy of Economic Development; and Claude Ponsard's (1958) Histoire des Théories Économiques Spatiales. Nonetheless, Walter Isard's first book in 1956, Location and Space Economy, apparently captured the imagination of many, and his third, Methods of Regional Analysis, published in 1960, only sealed his position as the father of the field. 
      As is typically the case, the above works were built on the shoulders of giants. Much of this predecessor work is documented well in Walter Isard's Location and Space Economy as well as Claude Ponsard's Histoire des Théorie Économique Spatiales. Particularly important was the contribution by 19th century German economists to location theory. The early German hegemony more or less starts with Johann Heinrich von Thünen and runs through both Wilhelm Launhardt and Alfred Weber to Walter Christaller and August Lösch.  
      Core journals 
      
      
       See also: Category:Urban studies and planning journals
       
      If an academic discipline is identified by its journals, then technically regional science began in 1955 with the publication of the first volume of the Papers and Proceedings, Regional Science Association (now Papers in Regional Science published by Springer). In 1958, the Journal of Regional Science followed. Since the 1970s, the number of journals serving the field has exploded. The RSAI website displays most of them. 
      Most recently the journal Spatial Economic Analysis has been published by the RSAI British and Irish Section with the Regional Studies Association. The latter is a separate and growing organisation involving economists, planners, geographers, political scientists, management academics, policymakers, and practitioners.  
      Academic programs 
      Walter Isard's efforts culminated in the creation of a few academic departments and several university-wide programs in regional science. At Walter Isard's suggestion, the University of Pennsylvania started the Regional Science Department in 1956. It featured as its first graduate William Alonso and was looked upon by many to be the international academic leader for the field. Another important graduate and faculty member of the department is Masahisa Fujita. The core curriculum of this department was microeconomics, input-output analysis, location theory, and statistics. Faculty also taught courses in mathematical programming, transportation economics, labor economics, energy and ecological policy modeling, spatial statistics, spatial interaction theory and models, benefit/cost analysis, urban and regional analysis, and economic development theory, among others. But the department's unusual multidisciplinary orientation undoubtedly encouraged its demise, and it lost its department status in 1993. 
      With a few exceptions, such as Cornell University, which awards graduate degrees in Regional Science, most practitioners hold positions in departments such as economics, geography, civil engineering, agricultural economics, rural sociology, urban planning, public policy, or demography. The diversity of disciplines participating in regional science have helped make it one of the most interesting and fruitful fields of academic specialization, but it has also made it difficult to fit the many perspectives into a curriculum for an academic major. It is even difficult for authors to write regional science textbooks, since what is elementary knowledge for one discipline might be entirely novel for another.  
      Public policy impact 
      Part of the movement was, and continues to be, associated with the political and economic realities of the role of the local community. On any occasion where public policy is directed at the sub-national level, such as a city or group of counties, the methods of regional science can prove useful. Traditionally, regional science has provided policymakers with guidance on the following issues:  
      
       
        
         Determinants of industrial location (both within the nation and region) 
         Regional economic impact of the arrival or departure of a firm 
         Determinants of internal migration patterns and land-use change 
         Regional specialization and exchange 
         Environmental impacts of social and economic change 
         Geographic association of economic and social conditions
        
       
       
      By targeting federal resources to specific geographic areas the Kennedy administration realized that political favors could be bought. This is also evident in Europe and other places where local economic areas do not coincide with political boundaries. In the more current era of devolution knowledge about "local solutions to local problems" has driven much of the interest in regional science. Thus, there has been much political impetus to the growth of the discipline.  
      Developments after 1980 
      Regional science has enjoyed mixed fortunes since the 1980s. While it has gained a larger following among economists and public policy practitioners, the discipline has fallen out of favor among more radical and post-modernist geographers. In an apparent effort to secure a larger share of research funds, geographers had the National Science Foundation's Geography and Regional Science Program renamed "Geography and Spatial Sciences".  
      New economic geography 
      In 1991, Paul Krugman, as a highly regarded international trade theorist, put out a call for economists to pay more attention to economic geography in a book entitled Geography and Trade, focusing largely on the core regional science concept of agglomeration economies. Krugman's call renewed interest by economists in regional science and, perhaps more importantly, founded what some term the "new economic geography", which enjoys much common ground with regional science. Broadly trained "new economic geographers" combine quantitative work with other research techniques, for example at the London School of Economics. The unification of Europe and the increased internationalization of the world's economic, social, and political realms has further induced interest in the study of regional, as opposed to national, phenomena. The new economic geography appears to have garnered more interest in Europe than in America where amenities, notably climate, have been found to better predict human location and re-location patterns, as emphasized in recent work by Mark Partridge. In 2008 Krugman won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences and his Prize Lecture has references both to work in regional science's location theory as well as economic's trade theory.  
      Criticisms 
      Today there are dwindling numbers of regional scientists from academic planning programs and mainstream geography departments. Attacks on regional science's practitioners by radical critics began as early as the 1970s, notably David Harvey who believed it lacked social and political commitment. Regional science's founder, Walter Isard, never envisioned regional scientists would be political or planning activists. In fact, he suggested that they will seek to be sitting in front of a computer and surrounded by research assistants. Trevor J. Barnes suggests the decline of regional science practice among planners and geographers in North America could have been avoided. He says "It is unreflective, and consequently inured to change, because of a commitment to a God’s eye view. It is so convinced of its own rightness, of its Archimedean position, that it remained aloof and invariant, rather than being sensitive to its changing local context."  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Regional scientists (category) 
        Economic geography 
        Regional economics 
        List of planning journals 
        Regional development 
        Regional planning 
        Rural economics 
        Spatial planning 
        Unified settlement planning 
        Urban economics 
        Urban planning 
        Walter Isard - founder of regional science 
        Regional Studies Association
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Isard, Walter. 1975. Introduction to Regional Science. New York: Prentice Hall.  
        ^ Isard, Walter. 1975. Introduction to Regional Science. New York: Prentice Hall, p. 6.  
        ^ Isard, Walter. 1956. Location and Space-Economy: A General Theory Relating to Industrial Location, Market Areas, Land Use, Trade and Urban Structure Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press.  
        ^ Ponsard, Claude. 1958. Histoire des Théories Économiques Spatiales. Paris: Librairie Armand Colin (Translated in 1983 by Benjamin H. Stevens, Margaret Chevallier and Joaquin P. Pujol as History of Spatial Economic Theory. Springer-Verlag: New York.)  
        ^ Regional Studies Association – Home Archived 2008-12-19 at the Wayback Machine. Regional-studies-assoc.ac.uk. Retrieved on 2011-06-04.  
        ^ Boyce, David. 2004. "A Short History of the field of Regional Science," Papers in Regional Science, 83, 31–57. The source for a few dates in this paragraph.  
        ^ Cornell College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, Department of City and Regional Planning: About Regional Science  
        ^ Scott Loveridge discusses the pros and cons of a multidisciplinary field. link Archived June 24, 2010, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ Classical regional science questions. link Archived June 24, 2010, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ Hoover, Edgar M.; Giarratani, Frank (2020) . An Introduction to Regional Economics. Morgantown, WV: Regional Research Institute, West Virginia University. pp.&nbsp;272–273.  
        ^ 
          Partridge, Mark D. (2010). "The duelling models: NEG vs amenity migration in explaining US engines of growth". Papers in Regional Science. 89: 513–536. doi:10.1111/j.1435-5957.2010.00315.x.  
        ^ Paul Krugman's Nobel Prize Lecture 2008. Nobelprize.org (2008-12-08). Retrieved on 2011-06-04.  
        ^ Barnes in Canadian J of Reg. Sci. 1 Archived March 10, 2005, at the Wayback Machine  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Boyce, David. (2004). A Short History of the Field of Regional Science. Papers in Regional Science., 83 pp.&nbsp;31–57. Short history. (PDF) . Retrieved on 2011-06-04. 
       Durlauf, Steven N., and Lawrence E. Blume, ed. (2008). The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd Edition:
       
      
       
        "new economic geography" by Anthony J. Venables. Abstract.
        
       
        "regional development, geography of" by Jeffrey D. Sachs and Gordon McCord. Abstract.
        
       
        "spatial economics" by Gilles Duranton. Abstract.
        
       
        "urban agglomeration" by William C. Strange. Abstract.
       
       
      
       Fujita, Masahisa, Paul Krugman, and Anthony Venables. (1999). The Spatial Economy: Cities, Regions and International Trade (Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT press). (
        ISBN&nbsp;0-262-06204-6) 
       Fujita, Masahisa. (1989). Urban Economic Theory: Land Use and City Size (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). (
        ISBN&nbsp;0-521-34662-2) 
       Fritsch, Michael und Mueller, Pamela (2006), The Effect of New Business Formation on Regional Development over Time. The Case of Germany, Discussion Papers on Entrepreneurship, Growth and Public Policy, Jena 
       
        Krumm, Ronald J.; Tolley, George S. (1987). "Regional economics". The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics. 4: 116–20. 
       
        Scott, A. J. (2000). "Economic Geography: The Great Half-Century". Cambridge Journal of Economics. 24: 504. 
       Web Book of Regional Science
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Environmental social science
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Ecological anthropology 
             Ecological economics 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Environmental crime 
             Environmental economics 
             Environmental communication 
             Environmental history 
             Environmental politics 
             Environmental psychology 
             Environmental sociology 
             Human ecology 
             Human geography 
             Political ecology 
             Regional science
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Agroecology 
             Anthrozoology 
             Behavioral geography 
             Community studies 
             Demography 
             Design 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Ecological humanities 
             Economics 
              
               energy 
               thermo
               
             Environmental 
              
               education 
               ethics 
               law 
               science 
               studies
               
             Ethnobiology 
              
               botany 
               ecology 
               zoology
               
             Forestry 
             Industrial ecology 
             Integrated geography 
             Permaculture 
             Rural sociology 
             Sexecology 
             Science, technology and society 
              
               science studies
               
             Sustainability 
              
               science 
               studies
               
             Systems ecology 
             Urban 
              
               ecology 
               geography 
               metabolism 
               studies
              
             
           
         
         
          Applied
          
            
            
             Architecture 
              
               landscape 
               sustainable
               
             Ecopsychology 
             Engineering 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Green criminology 
             Health 
              
               environmental 
               epidemiology 
               occupational 
               public
               
             Management 
              
               environmental 
               fisheries 
               forest 
               natural resource 
               waste
               
             Planning 
              
               environmental 
               land use 
               regional 
               spatial 
               urban
               
             Policy 
              
               energy 
               environmental
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Environment portal 
              Category 
             Concepts 
             Degrees 
             Journals 
             Research institutes 
             Scholars
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Regional_science&amp;oldid=1036395435"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Regional science
       Regional economics
       Economic geography
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Français
       Bahasa Indonesia
       עברית
       Português
       Русский
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 July 2021, at 08:03&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
