
 
  
   
  Land-use planning - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Land-use planning 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       See also: Planning permission
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (November 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         Public infrastructure
        
        
         
          
           Grand Coulee Dam
          
        
        
          Assets and facilities
        
        
          
          
           Airports 
           Bridges 
           Broadband 
           Canals 
           Coastal management 
           Critical infrastructure 
           Dams 
           Electricity 
           Energy 
           Hazardous waste 
           Hospitals 
           Irrigation schemes 
           Levees 
           Lighthouses 
           Parks 
           Pipeline transport 
           Ports 
           Mass transit 
           Public housing 
           State schools 
           Public spaces 
           Rail 
           Roads 
           Sewage treatment 
           Sewerage 
           Sluices 
           Solid waste 
           Telecommunication 
           Utilities 
           Water supply 
           Weirs
           
        
        
          Concepts
        
        
          
          
           Asset management 
           Appropriation 
           Lindahl tax 
           Build–operate–transfer 
           Design–bid–build 
           Design–build 
           Earmark 
           Fixed cost 
           Engineering contracts 
           Externality 
           Government debt 
           Life-cycle assessment 
           Maintenance 
           Monopoly 
           Property tax 
           Public–private partnership 
           Public capital 
           Public finance 
           Public good 
           Public sector 
           Renovation 
           Replacement (upgrade) 
           Spillover 
           Supply chain 
           Taxation
           
        
        
          Issues and ideas
        
        
          
          
           Air traffic control 
           Brownfield 
           Carbon footprint 
           Containerization 
           Congestion pricing 
           Ecotax 
           Ethanol fuel 
           Fuel tax 
           Groundwater 
           High-speed rail 
           Hybrid vehicles 
           Land-use planning 
           Mobile data terminal 
           Pork barrel 
           Rapid bus transit 
           Recycling 
           Renewables 
           Reverse osmosis 
           Smart grid 
           Smart growth 
           Stormwater 
           Urban sprawl 
           Traffic congestion 
           Transit-oriented development 
           Vehicle efficiency 
           Waste-to-energy 
           Weatherization 
           Wireless technology
           
        
        
          Fields of study
        
        
          
          
           Architecture 
           Chemical engineering 
           Civil 
           Electrical 
           Mechanical engineering 
           Public economics 
           Public policy 
           Urban planning
           
        
        
          
           
           
            
             Examples
            
            
           
             Akashi Kaikyō Bridge 
             Trans-Alaska pipeline 
             Autobahn 
             Brazilian energy independence 
             Brooklyn Bridge 
             Channel Tunnel 
             Chicago wastewater 
             China's high-speed rail 
             Curtiba rapid bus transit 
             Danish wind-power 
             British offshore wind-power 
             Nuclear power in France 
             Solar power in Germany 
             Hoover Dam 
             Hong Kong Int'l Airport 
             Intercity Express 
             Interstate highways 
             Jamnagar Refinery 
             Kansai Int'l Airport 
             Panama Canal 
             Port of Shanghai 
             San Francisco Bay Bridge 
             Three Gorges Dam 
             Shinkansen 
             Spanish high-speed rail 
             French TGV rail 
             Spanish autovias and autopistas 
             Transcontinental Railroad 
             Power transmission in the USA 
            
           
        
        
          
          
            Category 
           &nbsp;Engineering portal
          
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Land use planning is the process of regulating the use of land by a central authority. Usually, this is done to promote more desirable social and environmental outcomes as well as a more efficient use of resources. More specifically, the goals of modern land use planning often include environmental conservation, restraint of urban sprawl, minimization of transport costs, prevention of land use conflicts, and a reduction in exposure to pollutants. In the pursuit of these goals, planners assume that regulating the use of land will change the patterns of human behavior, and that these changes are beneficial. The first assumption, that regulating land use changes the patterns of human behavior is widely accepted. However, the second assumption - that these changes are beneficial - is contested, and depends on the location and regulations being discussed. 
      In urban planning, land use planning seeks to order and regulate land use in an efficient and ethical way, thus preventing land use conflicts. Governments use land use planning to manage the development of land within their jurisdictions. In doing so, the governmental unit can plan for the needs of the community while safeguarding natural resources. To this end, it is the systematic assessment of land and water potential, alternatives for land use, and economic and social conditions in order to select and adopt the best land use options. Often one element of a comprehensive plan, a land use plan provides a vision for the future possibilities of development in neighborhoods, districts, cities, or any defined planning area. 
      In the United States, the terms land use planning, regional planning, urban planning, and urban design are often used interchangeably, and will depend on the state, county, and/or project in question. Despite confusing nomenclature, the essential function of land use planning remains the same whatever term is applied. The Canadian Institute of Planners offers a definition that land use planning means the scientific, aesthetic, and orderly disposition of land, resources, facilities and services with a view to securing the physical, economic and social efficiency, health and well-being of urban and rural communities. The American Planning Association states that the goal of land use planning is to further the welfare of people and their communities by creating convenient, equitable, healthful, efficient, and attractive environments for present and future generations.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Description and Application 
          
          2.1 Description 
          2.2 Planning Process and Parties Involved 
          2.3 Application 
          2.4 Conditions necessary 
           
        3 Pros and Cons 
          
          3.1 Pros 
          3.2 Cons 
           
        4 Land Use Planning and Environmental Sustainability 
        5 Types of Planning 
        6 Methods 
        7 Basis of Land Use Planning Authority in the United States 
        8 Practical Examples of Land Use Planning 
          
          8.1 Land Use Planning in Milan City 
          8.2 Land Use Planning in Indigenous Communities 
          8.3 Examples of Land Use Planning in the Global South 
          8.4 The Future of Land Use Planning 
           
        9 See also 
        10 Academic journals 
        11 References 
          
          11.1 Bibliography 
           
        12 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Land use planning nearly always requires land use regulation, which typically encompasses zoning. Zoning regulates the types of activities that can be accommodated on a given piece of land, as well as the amount of space devoted to those activities, and the ways that buildings may be situated and shaped. 
      The ambiguous nature of the term “planning”, as it relates to land use, is historically tied to the practice of zoning. Zoning in the US came about in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to protect the interests of property owners. The practice was found to be constitutionally sound by the Supreme Court decision of Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co. in 1926. Soon after, the Standard State Zoning Enabling Act gave authority to the states to regulate land use. Even so, the practice remains controversial today. 
      The “taking clause” of the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the government from taking private property for public use without just compensation. The case of Dolan v. City of Tigard demonstrated the criteria that determine the threshold of what is considered taking. One interpretation of the taking clause is that any restriction on the development potential of land through zoning regulation is a “taking”. A deep-rooted anti-zoning sentiment exists in America, that no one has the right to tell another what he can or cannot do with his land. Ironically, although people are often averse to being told how to develop their own land, they tend to expect the government to intervene when a proposed land use is undesirable. 
      Conventional zoning has not typically regarded the manner in which buildings relate to one another or the public spaces around them, but rather has provided a pragmatic system for mapping jurisdictions according to permitted land use. This system, combined with the interstate highway system, widespread availability of mortgage loans, growth in the automobile industry, and the over-all post-World War II economic expansion, destroyed most of the character that gave distinctiveness to American cities. The urban sprawl that most US cities began to experience in the mid-twentieth century was, in part, created by a flat approach to land use regulations. Zoning without planning created unnecessarily exclusive zones. Thoughtless mapping of these zones over large areas was a big part of the recipe for suburban sprawl. It was from the deficiencies of this practice that land use planning developed, to envision the changes that development would cause and mitigate the negative effects of such change.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Suburban development near Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States
        
       
       
      As America grew and sprawl was rampant, the much-loved America of the older towns, cities, or streetcar suburbs essentially became illegal through zoning. Unparalleled growth and unregulated development changed the look and feel of landscapes and communities. They strained commercial corridors and affected housing prices, causing citizens to fear a decline in the social, economic and environmental attributes that defined their quality of life. Zoning regulations became politically contentious as developers, legislators, and citizens struggled over altering zoning maps in a way that was acceptable to all parties. Land use planning practices evolved as an attempt to overcome these challenges. It engages citizens and policy-makers to plan for development with more intention, foresight, and community focus than had been previously used.  
      Description and Application 
      Description 
      Land use planning is defined as: the process by which optimum forms of land use and management are indicated, considering the biophysical, technological, social, economic and political conditions of a particular territory. The objective of planning land use is to influence, control or direct changes in the use of land so that it is dedicated to the most beneficial use and maintains the quality of the environment and promoting conservation of the land resources. The territorial diagnosis and the generation of alternatives of management and environmental protection for the planning of the use of the land produces the indispensable knowledge necessary for the formulation of the policies of use, contributing to the search of competitive and sustainable productive and extractive activities and systems. The methodological process of land use planning contributes to: orienting the location of economic and social activities regarding the aptitude of the land and providing solutions to conflicts of use; indicate the base of natural resources that should remain and protected areas; point out the areas exposed to natural hazards and their management; identify sustainable productive and extractive activities and systems; guide the planning of land uses and indicate the areas that require land adaptation or recovery projects   
      Planning Process and Parties Involved 
      In most countries, the local municipal council/local government, the body responsible of the environment and oftentimes the national government assume all the functions of land use planning; among them the corresponding function to territorial ordering (OT). For this reason, the highlighted bodies have among other responsibilities the promotion of the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources, establishing policies, criteria, tools and procedures of the most appropriate efficient and sustainable territorial order in coordination with any other relevant corresponding entities such as construction companies and the public.  
      Application 
      
       "Developing cities and towns": land use planning is an important component of city planning. The nature of cities required to the most beneficial use in terms of maximization of economic factors and promoting convenience, while maintaining the quality of the environment and promoting conservation of the land. The only way to achieve this is the utilization of the elements of land use planning. 
       "The concept of Zoning": Zoning is the process by which areas of land are split into zones by appropriate establishments within which several users are assigned to each zone. Therefore, this makes zoning very important modus operandi in land use planning where it is used to design urban areas in many countries (Lewis-Roger, 1987). The topic of zoning is considered within the context of land use planning and design as a systemic perception. Zoning is used as a fundamental component of territorial planning, which is incorporated in the stages of the logical model of regional development. In the process of zoning, the actor divides land into units of different sizes, shapes and locations, according to the characteristics of the terrain and the corporality of a culture. The actor who generates a multiplicity of spaces using zoning, based on global spatial unit and the preferences of user who uses these spaces in multiple use form, decomposes his vision of it into four different dimensions namely; deontic, cognitive, expressive and aesthetics functions. Each of these dimensions represents land in different forms, intensities, positions and areas, which may not coincide with each other. The deontic space is that of the transforming actions of the world, of the duty to be and to do. The cognitive space is apprehended by the faculties of knowledge from the senses to the reason, such as the ecological and technological spaces. The aesthetic space refers to the scopes of feel and beauty. The expressive or indexical space corresponds to the internal and cultural expression of the identity of the person who organizes the space. Often, a fifth space is included, that is, the administrative space, which concerns the positioning of the legal, authoritative and legislative base being planned. Zoning should not be considered as the end in itself, but only as a means of approximation in relation to geographical reality. Instead of imposing pre-established categories, it is about looking for landscape discontinuities. The category system (taxonomy) must allow a deepening (level) of the landscapes according to their scale. For each order of phenomena there are thresholds of manifestation and “extinction” that by themselves can justify the systematic differentiation of landscapes into hierarchical units. The study and zoning of the coverage and land use requires first defining the concepts of land, coverage and use in order to avoid the problems of interpretation associated with the management of these concepts. The concept of land is defined as an entity formed by the mutual interaction of living and non-living nature in a recognizable portion of the Earth's surface. It is a more geographical than edaphological definition. The earth is conceived as the result of the integration of biophysical and socioeconomic elements whose interrelation generates certain particular spatial units or landscapes, therefore, land and landscape are considered in this guide as synonyms. Land cover, on the other hand, is defined as the different features that cover the land, such as water, forest, other types of vegetation, bare rocks or sand, man-made structures, etc. In general, these are the traits that can be directly observed in aerial photographs and frequently in satellite images. The concept of use, applies to the employment that man gives to different types of coverage, cyclically or permanently to meet his material or spiritual needs. Basically, this is where the need for zoning arises.
       
      Conditions necessary 
      
       Community relations: for any land planning activity, the actors involved must involve the community or the public to put into consideration their opinions on the proposed land planning initiatives. After all, the land is being planned so that the public can enjoy the benefits that comes from land use planning. 
       Government and legal support: the government can support land use planning initiatives in a myriad of ways. The first is by financing or subsidizing a section of land use planning activities. The second way is by reducing bureaucracy and administration bottlenecks that comes with obtaining permits and licences.
       
      Pros and Cons 
      Pros 
      
       Land use planning is an important growth framework: certainly, prosperous urban areas have a vision that they must follow through a framework to achieve a development in a well-ordered way. Hence, land use planning provides the framework. 
       A well-planned urban area is a well-prepared urban area: anticipating the future allows for better preparedness. Indeed, the presence of natural phenomenon that represents a threat to human life activities implies a limitation in the use of land. It is necessary then to plan the use of the land taking into account its limitation in order to allow the containment of natural phenomenon and its manifestations either by restricting the presence of human life and/or activities, adapting infrastructure conditions in a manner that reduces its vulnerability to natural phenomenon or implementing plans conducive to risk mitigation. The absence of territorial planning plans, the lack of definition of areas exposed to threats and the lack of studies on natural phenomena that might bring threats, ensure an increase in the number and magnitude of disasters of natural origin. The process of land use planning developed putting into consideration those aspects, allows the identification, location and evaluation of areas exposed to natural phenomena, which allows the implementation of measures that guarantee risk mitigation. 
       Good land use planning positively impacts the development of urban economy. 
       Promote the national territorial order and economic ecological zoning as a support for the conservation, use and sustainable use of natural resources and biological diversity, as well as the orderly occupation of the territory. 
       The analysis of natural and anthropic risk in territorial planning processes is incorporated, as well as adaptation measures to climate change. 
       Mechanisms to prevent the settlement of populations and the development of socioeconomic activities are promoted in areas with high potential for risks in the face of natural and anthropic hazards. 
       Territorial planning is promoted as a basis for concerted development plans and border development, in the management of watersheds and coastal marine areas. 
       The actions of regional and local governments are guided for the efficient fulfillment of their functions in this area of land use planning.
       
      Cons 
      
       The cost of land use planning is usually high, generally because of poor investment and the lack of anticipation of technology. 
       Land use planning theory has largely been shaped by case studies of cities in the Global North. Countries all over the world, particularly in the Global South, are seeing population booms and rapid urbanization. Many of the methods, practices, and assumptions about land use planning from 20th Century Europe and the United States are not relevant to the Global South, where conditions are quite different. Manu fundamental concepts associated with traditional land use planning, like zoning, have persisted despite a rapidly-changing urban landscape.
       
      Land Use Planning and Environmental Sustainability 
      In view of sustainable development, land use planning is seen as a political and technical-administrative decision-making process agreed with social, economic, political and technical factors, for orderly occupation and sustainable use of the land under development. On the other hand, it seeks regulation and promotion of the location and sustainable development of human settlements, economic and social activities, and spatial physical development, based on the identification of potentialities and limitations that consider environmental, economic, sociocultural, institutional and geopolitical criteria. By and large, these parameters are put in place in order to make sure that the environment is protected during land use or land development. Indeed, based on the recommendations of the United Nations in its Habitat conference, land is assigned a high importance for the development of human life as it is the fundamental support for its permanence and development, this being the most important objective of the policy of human settlements. That is, the land resource is recognized as an essential element, which supports the social, political and economic formation of society. As mentioned earlier, the use of land refers to the occupation of a certain area according to its agrological capacity and therefore its development potential, it is classified according to its location as urban or rural, it represents a fundamental element for the development of the city and its inhabitants since it is from these that its urban structure is formed and therefore its functionality is defined. For this reason, there is a need to ensure sustainability in order to ensure the we continue to enjoy the benefits that come from urban planning and to ensure that future generations will continue enjoying these benefits. 
      To guarantee this, land use planning come into the fold. In a broader sense, this is a tool through which State defines the type of use land will have within a settlement, e.g. a city, while also determining the guidelines for its use in order to ensure effectiveness and sustainability. Land use, in this case, is assigned on the basis on its physical and functional characteristics that they have in the urban structure, and with the aim of occupying the space in an orderly manner and according to their physical capacity (occupation of areas suitable for urban development and environmental sustainability), which finally it translates into a harmonious growth of the city. This tool is structured through a planning system at the national and local level, which establishes the general guidelines that should be taken into account for the development of urban development. Here, the authorities involved might formulate a number of restrictions to guarantee sustainability, for example, banning land development in riparian zones or in national parks. Basically, the goal here is to protect the environment. 
      Throughout the world, there are rising levels of environmental degradation due to unclean energy usage in the development and powering of cities and neighborhoods. In the 20th century, there was a global push to develop large cities quickly to accommodate the people who were migrating from rural areas to cities for jobs. The type of energy used for this was either coal or oil fuel, which meant that the environment was disregarded and damaged by numerous urban development projects. Today, the United Nations has found that over half of the world's population lives in cities that are still growing. In order to create environmentally viable urban landscapes, the UN advocated for green energy use, as well as urban development that encouraged green-friendly transportation. In the United States, about 75% of the energy used is allocated to power buildings and modes of transportation; land use planning can be a useful tool in changing these aspects of energy usage in a way that would be beneficial to both residents and the ecology. 
      A sustainable urban development includes:  
      
       Methods for reducing waste, such as recycling and composting programs that are easily accessible to residents. 
       Limiting pollution, with techniques such as protecting universal access to necessities and encouraging access to facilities, goods, and services in ways that do not require the use of a car. 
       Encouraging public transportation usage and spread within a city.
       
      The Partnership for Sustainable Communities, created by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. Department Of Transportation, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2009 was intended to encourage sustainable land use planning. This partnership helps to ensure that federal housing projects, transportation, and other neighborhood infrastructure would help residents live closer to jobs, while also reducing pollution since there would be less commute time. Over the past decade, this federal partnership has funded 1,066 projects across the 50 States, as well as Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. The total amount of grant money given to these projects has reached approximately $4.6 billion. Some of the programs that the partnership sponsors are the Housing and Urban Development's “Sustainable Communities Regional Planning” and “Community Challenge Grant Programs”. These programs have made important strides in sustainable urban planning, with about 40 percent of U.S. citizens now having access to communities who were awarded these grants. Both of these programs make up $240 million in federal investment towards local land use planning efforts.  
      Types of Planning 
      Various types of planning have emerged over the course of the 20th century. Below are the six main typologies of planning, as defined by David Walters in his book, Designing Communities (2007):  
      
       Traditional or comprehensive planning: Common in the US after World War II, characterized by politically neutral experts with a rational view of the new urban development. Focused on producing clear statements about the form and content of new development. 
       Systems planning: 1950s–1970s, resulting from the failure of comprehensive planning to deal with the unforeseen growth of post World War II America. More analytical view of the planning area as a set of complex processes, less interested in a physical plan. 
       Democratic planning: 1960s. Result of societal loosening of class and race barriers. Gave more citizens a voice in planning for future of community. 
       Advocacy and equity planning: 1960s &amp; 70s. Strands of democratic planning that sought specifically to address social issues of inequality and injustice in community planning. 
       Strategic planning: 1960s-present. Recognizes small-scale objectives and pragmatic real-world constraints. 
       Environmental planning: 1960s-present. Developed as many of the ecological and social implications of global development were first widely understood. 
       Tenure responsive planning: 2015-onwards. It recognizes that land use planning should be collaborative but with the purpose of tenure security improvement. This is a hybrid approach whereby traditional, advocacy, democratic and bottom-up efforts are merged in such a way that they focus towards tenure security outcomes.
       
      Today, successful planning involves a balanced mix of analysis of the existing conditions and constraints; extensive public engagement; practical planning and design; and financially and politically feasible strategies for implementation. 
      Current processes include a combination of strategic and environmental planning. It is becoming more widely understood that any sector of land has a certain capacity for supporting human, animal, and vegetative life in harmony, and that upsetting this balance has dire consequences on the environment. Planners and citizens often take on an advocacy role during the planning process in an attempt to influence public policy. 
      Since the 1990s, the activist/environmentalist approach to planning has grown into the Smart Growth movement, characterized by the focus on more sustainable and less environmentally damaging forms of development. Moreover, there is changes on the requirements of land use planning overtime. For example, whilst most of the urban planners suggest the distance from the landfill that a housing estate should be built, they must also take wind direction into consideration   
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Aerial view of Rosslyn-Ballston corridor in Arlington, Virginia. High density, mixed use development is concentrated within ¼–½ mile from the Rosslyn, Court House and Clarendon Washington Metro stations (shown in red), with limited density outside that area. This photograph is taken from the United States Environmental Protection Agency website describing Arlington's award for overall excellence in smart growth in 2002 — the first ever granted by the agency.
        
       
      
      Smart growth supports the integration of mixed land uses into communities as a critical component of achieving better places to live. Putting uses in close proximity to one another has benefits for transportation alternatives to driving, security, community cohesiveness, local economies, and general quality of life issues. Smart growth strives to provide a means for communities to alter the planning context which currently renders mixed land uses illegal in most of the country. 
      Methods 
      Professional planners work in the public sector for governmental and non-profit agencies, and in the private sector for businesses related to land, community, and economic development. Through research, design, and analysis of data, a planner's work is to create a plan for some aspect of a community. This process typically involves gathering public input to develop the vision and goals for the community. 
      A charrette is a facilitated planning workshop often used by professional planners to gather information from their clients and the public about the project at hand. Charettes involve a diverse set of stakeholders in the planning process, to ensure that the final plan comprehensively addresses the study area. 
      Geographic Information Systems, or GIS, is a very useful and important tool in land use planning. It uses aerial photography to show land parcels, topography, street names, and other pertinent information. GIS systems contain layers of graphic information and their relational databases that may be projected into maps that allow the user to view a composite of a specific area, adding an array of graphically oriented decision making tools to the planning process. 
      A transect, as used in planning, is a hierarchical scale of environmental zones that define a land area by its character, ranging from rural, preserved land to urban centers. As a planning methodology, the transect is used as a tool for managing growth and sustainability by planning land use around the physical character of the land. This allows a community to plan for growth while preserving the natural and historical nature of their environment. 
      Natural ecology and historical identity of the city are matched to its topography in the Urban Landscape System approach that intends to mitigate effects of climate change and improve city branding through the ontology of place. 
      Another approach to land use planning is the use of "traditional and local knowledge," or TLK, or local, Indigenous, and place-bound ways of knowing. Categories of TLK include 1) knowledge about the environment, 2) knowledge about the current use of areas, 3) knowledge of management systems, 4) values associate with the environment (i.e., spirituality and culture). There is growing literature about how to effectively incorporate and represent TLK in land use and management plans.  
      Basis of Land Use Planning Authority in the United States 
      Police power is the basis for land use planning authority in the United States. This authority is usually delegated by state governments to local governments, including counties and cities. It is these local governments that most frequently exercise police power in land use planning matters. The regulation of land use based on police power is distinct from the taking of private property by the government through the power of eminent domain. If the regulation of land use is done under the authority of the police power, the private property owner isn't typically entitled to compensation as they would be if property was taken under the power of eminent domain. The court decision in the case Commonwealth v. Alger was related to land use planning and dealt with the construction of a wharf on privately owned tidelands around Boston Harbor.  
      Practical Examples of Land Use Planning 
      Land Use Planning in Milan City 
      Milan city is located in northern Italy. It is the second most populous city in the country after Rome with a population of over 4 million (The CBD and its metropolitan Boroughs). 
      Every area in Milan is a segment that starts from the center and reaches the city limits, so that central areas and peripheral areas are part of the same area. In Milan, zones are not identified by names but numbers. The city hall area 1 of Milan includes the entire historical center, starting from the geographical center of Milan in Piazza Duomo up to the Cerchia dei Bastioni. The town hall area 2 goes from Piazza della Repubblica to Crescenzago, Turro, Greco and Precotto. The town hall 3 goes from Porta Venezia to Lambrate, passing through Città Studi.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Milan, Italy.
        
       
       
      The town hall area 4 goes from Porta Vittoria to the Forlanini park, also including Porta Romana, Corvetto and Santa Giulia. The town hall 5 goes from Porta Ticinese to the Agricultural Park, passing through Chiesa Rossa and Gratosoglio. The town hall 6 goes from the Darsena, up to Barona, Lorenteggio and Giambellino. The city hall area 7 goes from Porta Magenta to Baggio and Figino passing through San Siro. The town hall zone 8 goes from Porta Volta to Quarto Oggiaro, passing through QT8 and Gallaratese. And lastly, the town hall area 9 goes from Porta Nuova to Niguarda and Bovisa. The idea here, is to allow members of the nine zones to get easy access to the CBD. Effective measures have been put in place to limit the impact of human activities on the many water bodies in this city such as restricting land development in riparian areas. In fact, the drive for the establishment of the city on the land where it stands was easy accessibility to water.  
      Land Use Planning in Indigenous Communities 
      Land use planning is an important method for sustainable development for Indigenous communities. Indigenous peoples in the United States and Canada often have fragmented or diminishing land bases with limited uses. Oftentimes, these land bases are also far from urban centers and with limited expansion ability. Since European settlers first began colonizing the American Continent, Indigenous peoples have 98.9% of their land, a Yale study found. The lands indigenous peoples were forced onto are facing current and future climate-change related risks. This fact leads to the perpetuation of systematic inequity for Indigenous peoples, since livelihoods, preservation of culture and tradition, access to adequate housing, and access to resources are all factors that are deeply rooted in land. Many Indigenous groups are embracing land use planning to determine the future of their territories. In Canada, for example, the Dehcho First Nations have developed a land use plan that honors cultural traditions and Elders' knowledge, and incorporates conservation, development zones, and other categories. This plan, which has been extensively researched, can serve as an excellent model for other Indigenous Nations, and for cities and areas across North America.  
      Examples of Land Use Planning in the Global South 
      While most of the examples discussed in this article were drawn from cities in the Global North, land use planning has been employed in cities all over the world. The Global North has traditionally been dominant in planning theory and practice. However, as the world continues to quickly urbanize, and the global population increases, most of the new global population growth is occurring in cities in the developing world, or the Global South. Many of the assumptions about land use planning do not hold true elsewhere in the world, especially as developing nations face urbanization at a more rapid scale than most countries in the Global North. In India, for example, land use planning, specifically as it pertains to siting industries, has been incorporated into the nation's constitution, and is controlled by the State and Federal levels of government.  
      The Future of Land Use Planning 
      Due to the increasing discussions in the issues of climate change and global warming, the future of land use planning will be dominated by environmental sustainability themes more than economic convenience. Also, due to the fact that the world is quickly urbanizing, and this massive population growth is mostly occurring in cities in the Global South, some of the assumptions we have formed about land use planning must be reimagined, as common theory and practice is no longer always relevant to those cities that are currently practicing land use planning.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Environmental planning 
        Federal Land Use Policy Act of 1976 
        Geographic Information Systems 
        Inter-municipal land use planning 
        Landscape architecture 
        Landscape planning 
        Regional planning 
        Smart growth 
        Spatial planning 
        Sustainable development 
        Transferable development rights 
        Transportation planning 
        Urban design 
        Urban planning 
        Village Development Committee (India)
        
       
      Academic journals 
      
      
       Main article: List of planning journals
       
      
       Journal of Transport and Landuse 
       Environment and Planning 
       land use Policy 
       Journal of land use and Environmental Law 
       Journal of the American Planning Association 
       Planning Theory
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Young, A., 2003  
         ^ Canadian Institute of Planners, 2011  
         ^ a b American Planning Association, 2011  
         ^ a b Barnett, J., 2004  
         ^ Martha Derthick. Dilemmas of Scale in America's Federal Democracy. p.&nbsp;257.  
         ^ a b c d Walters, D., 2007  
         ^ a b c d Southwestern NC Planning and Economic Development Commission, Community Foundation of WNC, &amp; the Lawrence Group Architects of NC, Inc., 2009  
         ^ a b c 
           Savini, Federico; Aalbers, Manuel B (2016-07-26). "The de-contextualisation of land use planning through financialisation: Urban redevelopment in Milan". European Urban and Regional Studies. 23 (4): 878–894. doi:10.1177/0969776415585887. ISSN&nbsp;0969-7764. S2CID&nbsp;156938620.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           Long, Hualou; Qu, Yi (May 2018). "Land use transitions and land management: A mutual feedback perspective". Land Use Policy. 74: 111–120. doi:10.1016/j.landusepol.2017.03.021. ISSN&nbsp;0264-8377.  
         ^ Lewis, Roger K. (1987) “The Powers and Pitfalls of Zoning,” and “From Zoning to Master Planning and Back.” In shaping the City. Washington, DC: AIA Press 1987, pp 274 281. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0913962880.  
         ^ 
           Watson, Vanessa (2009). "Seeing from the South: Refocusing Urban Planning on the Globe's Central Urban Issues". Urban Studies. 46 (11): 2259–2275. ISSN&nbsp;0042-0980.  
         ^ (Lee &amp; Yeo, 2018; Von Haaren et al., 2016)  
         ^ a b c d 
           Ziegler, Edward H. (2009-07-10). "The case for megapolitan growth management in the twenty‐first century: Regional urban planning and sustainable development in the USA". International Journal of Law in the Built Environment. 1 (2): 105–129. doi:10.1108/17561450910974722. ISSN&nbsp;1756-1450.  
         ^ 
           Mercier, Jean (June 2009). "Equity, Social Justice, and Sustainable Urban Transportation in the Twenty-First Century". Administrative Theory &amp; Praxis. 31 (2): 145–163. doi:10.2753/ATP1084-1806310201. ISSN&nbsp;1084-1806. S2CID&nbsp;153413752.  
         ^ a b 
           Agyeman, Julian; Evans, Tom (November 2003). "Toward Just Sustainability in Urban Communities: Building Equity Rights with Sustainable Solutions". The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. 590 (1): 35–53. doi:10.1177/0002716203256565. ISSN&nbsp;0002-7162. S2CID&nbsp;145274467.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Baker, Shana (2015). "Changing the Landscape of Livability". Public Roads – via JSTOR.  
         ^ 
           House, R. W.; Warfield, J. N. (1969-03-01). "What is system planning?". Automatica. 5 (2): 151–157. doi:10.1016/0005-1098(69)90008-9. ISSN&nbsp;0005-1098.  
         ^ 
           Krumholz, Norman (2015), "Advocacy and Equity Planning", International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences, Elsevier, pp.&nbsp;218–222, doi:10.1016/b978-0-08-097086-8.74001-3, ISBN&nbsp;978-0-08-097087-5, retrieved 2021-12-08  
         ^ Chigbu et al. (2017). Combining land use planning and tenure security: a tenure responsive land use planning approach for developing countries. Journal of Environmental Planning and Management, https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09640568.2016.1245655  
         ^ Li, Rita Yi Man and Li, Herru Ching Yu (2018). Have Housing Prices Gone with the Smelly Wind? Big Data Analysis on Landfill in Hong Kong. Sustainability, 10(2), 341; doi:10.3390/su10020341  
         ^ 
           "Arlington County, Virginia - National Award for Smart Growth Achievement - 2002 Winners Presentation | Smart Growth | US EPA". Epa.gov. 2006-06-28. Retrieved 2012-12-30.  
         ^ Smart Growth Network, 2011  
         ^ 
           Raman, Rewati; Roy, Uttam Kumar (November 2019). "Taxonomy of urban mixed land use planning". Land Use Policy. 88: 104102. doi:10.1016/j.landusepol.2019.104102.  
         ^ 
           Markkula, Inkeri; Turunen, Minna T.; Kantola, Sini (2019). "Traditional and local knowledge in land use planning: insights into the use of the Akwé: Kon Guidelines in Eanodat, Finnish Sápmi". Ecology and Society. 24 (1). ISSN&nbsp;1708-3087.  
         ^ Understanding the Law of Zoning and Land Use Controls, Barlow Burke, Lexisnexis, Chapter 1, Published 2002  
         ^ 
           "Home". www.oecd-ilibrary.org. Retrieved 2021-12-07.  
         ^ 
           "Near Total Loss of Historical Lands Leaves Indigenous Nations in the U.S. More Vulnerable to Climate Change". Yale School of the Environment. 2021-10-28. Retrieved 2021-12-08.  
         ^ 
           "Land Use Planning". Indigenous Leadership Initiative. Retrieved 2021-12-07.  
         ^ 
           "Dehcho Land Use Plan". Dehcho First Nations. Retrieved 2021-12-08.  
         ^ 
           Watson, Vanessa (2009). "Seeing from the South: Refocusing Urban Planning on the Globe's Central Urban Issues". Urban Studies. 46 (11): 2259–2275. ISSN&nbsp;0042-0980.  
         ^ 
           Gupta, J (2006-03-31). "Land use planning in India". Journal of Hazardous Materials. 130 (3): 300–306. doi:10.1016/j.jhazmat.2005.07.006.  
         ^ Stürck, J., Levers, C., van der Zanden, E. H., Schulp, C. J. E., Verkerk, P. J., Kuemmerle, T., ... &amp; Schrammeijer, E. (2018). Simulating and delineating future land change trajectories across Europe. Regional Environmental Change, 18(3), 733-749.  
         ^ 
           Watson, Vanessa (2009). "Seeing from the South: Refocusing Urban Planning on the Globe's Central Urban Issues". Urban Studies. 46 (11): 2259–2275. ISSN&nbsp;0042-0980.  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       Barnet, J. (2004). Codifying New Urbanism: How to Reform Municipal Land Development Regulations, Chicago, IL. 
       Southwestern NC Planning and Economic Development Commission, Community Foundation of WNC, &amp; the Lawrence Group Architects of NC, Inc. (2009). Region A Toolbox, A Pilot of the Mountain Landscapes Initiative, Sylva, NC. 
       Walters, David. (2007). Designing Community, Charrettes, Master plans and Form-based Codes, Oxford, UK. 
       Young, Anthony. (1993). Guidelines for land use Planning, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome, Italy.
       
      Chigbu et al. (2017). Combining land use planning and tenure security: a tenure responsive land use planning approach for developing countries. Journal of Environmental Planning and Management, 60(9):1622-1639.  
      External links 
      
       American Planning Association, Chicago, IL 
       "Planning Is ...", Canadian Institute of Planners, Ottawa, ON 
       Smart Growth Online, National Center for Appropriate Technology, Butte, MT 
       "Arlington County, Virginia", U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 
       "An overview of spatial policy in Asian and European countries", Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MILT), Japan
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Urban planning
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             Urban area 
             City 
             Metropolitan area 
             Suburb 
             Land use 
             Planning 
             Planning and zoning commission 
             Growth management 
             World Urbanism Day
             
           
         
         
          Majorbranches
          
           
           
            
             
              Urban planning
              
                
                
                 Land-use planning 
                 Comprehensive planning (US) 
                 History of urban planning 
                 Spatial planning (Eur) 
                 Redevelopment 
                 Urban design 
                 Urbanism
                 
               
             
             
              Rural
              
                
                
                 Conservation development 
                 Preservation development 
                 Rural housing 
                 Village design statement (UK)
                 
               
             
             
              Regional planning
              
                
                
                 Regional Planning Association of America
                 
               
             
             
              Environmental planning
              
                
                
                 Environmental design 
                 Environmental impact assessment 
                 Recreation resource planning 
                 Sustainable development
                 
               
             
             
              Transportation planning
              
                
                
                 Transportation forecasting 
                 Trip distribution 
                 Rational planning model 
                 Transit-oriented development 
                 Professional transportation planner 
                 Urban freight distribution
                 
               
             
             
              Economic development
              
                
                
                 Community economic development
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Concepts/ theories
          
           
           
            
             
              Movements
              
                
                
                 Athens Charter 
                 Car-free movement 
                 City Beautiful movement 
                 Dark-sky movement 
                 Garden city movement 
                 Indigenous planning 
                 New Urbanism 
                 Settlement movement 
                 Smart growth 
                 Structuralism 
                 Transition towns
                 
               
             
             
              Theories
              
                
                
                 Collaborative planning 
                 Context theory 
                 Ekistics 
                 Intelligent urbanism 
                 Livable streets 
                 Market urbanism 
                 Radical planning 
                 Urban acupuncture 
                 Urban renewal
                 
               
             
             
              Cities by type
              
                
                
                 Company town / Monotown 
                 Commuter town 
                 Ghost town 
                 Global city 
                 Model village 
                 Planned community (New town)
                 
               
             
             
              Concepts
              
                
                
                 Affordable housing 
                 Cityscape 
                 Cluster development 
                 Complete Communities 
                 Creative city 
                 Eminent domain (US) 
                 Gentrification / Brusselization 
                 Infill 
                 Healthy cities / Healthy community design 
                 LEED-ND 
                 Mixed-use development 
                 Model cities 
                 Placemaking 
                 Planning gain 
                 Planning Permission (U.K.) 
                 Rural–urban fringe 
                 Temporary use 
                 Third place 
                 Tract housing 
                 Transferable development rights 
                 Urban decay 
                 Urban growth boundary 
                 Urban sprawl / Peri-urbanisation 
                 Urban vitality 
                 Urbanization 
                 Verticalization / High-rise urbanism 
                 Zoning
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          People
          
           
           
            
             
              Theorists/practitioners
              
                
                
                 Andrés Duany 
                 Clarence Perry 
                 Clarence Stein 
                 Colin Buchanan 
                 Daniel Burnham 
                 Donald Appleyard 
                 Ebenezer Howard 
                 Edmund Bacon 
                 Guy Benveniste 
                 Ian McHarg 
                 James Rouse 
                 Konstantinos Doxiadis 
                 Kevin A. Lynch 
                 Le Corbusier 
                 Peter Calthorpe 
                 Patrick Geddes 
                 Raymond Unwin 
                 Thomas Adams 
                 List of urban theorists 
                 List of urban planners
                 
                
                 
                 
               
             
             
              Critics
              
                
                
                 Elizabeth Farrelly 
                 Jane Jacobs 
                 James Howard Kunstler 
                 Lewis Mumford 
                 Randal O'Toole
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Relateddisciplines
          
            
            
             Architecture 
             Civil engineering 
             Development economics 
             Urban ecology 
             Urban economics 
             Geography 
             Land development 
             Landscape architecture 
             Marine spatial planning  
             Public health 
             Public policy 
             Real estate development 
             Social sciences
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Cities portal 
              Category 
             Index of urban planning articles 
             List of planned cities 
             List of planning journals 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Environmental social science
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Ecological anthropology 
             Ecological economics 
             Environmental anthropology 
             Environmental crime 
             Environmental economics 
             Environmental communication 
             Environmental history 
             Environmental politics 
             Environmental psychology 
             Environmental sociology 
             Human ecology 
             Human geography 
             Political ecology 
             Regional science
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Agroecology 
             Anthrozoology 
             Behavioral geography 
             Community studies 
             Demography 
             Design 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Ecological humanities 
             Economics 
              
               energy 
               thermo
               
             Environmental 
              
               education 
               ethics 
               law 
               science 
               studies
               
             Ethnobiology 
              
               botany 
               ecology 
               zoology
               
             Forestry 
             Industrial ecology 
             Integrated geography 
             Permaculture 
             Rural sociology 
             Sexecology 
             Science, technology and society 
              
               science studies
               
             Sustainability 
              
               science 
               studies
               
             Systems ecology 
             Urban 
              
               ecology 
               geography 
               metabolism 
               studies
              
             
           
         
         
          Applied
          
            
            
             Architecture 
              
               landscape 
               sustainable
               
             Ecopsychology 
             Engineering 
              
               ecological 
               environmental
               
             Green criminology 
             Health 
              
               environmental 
               epidemiology 
               occupational 
               public
               
             Management 
              
               environmental 
               fisheries 
               forest 
               natural resource 
               waste
               
             Planning 
              
               environmental 
               land use 
               regional 
               spatial 
               urban
               
             Policy 
              
               energy 
               environmental
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Environment portal 
              Category 
             Concepts 
             Degrees 
             Journals 
             Research institutes 
             Scholars
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural resources
           
         
         
          Air
          
           
           
            
             
              Pollution&nbsp;/ quality
              
                
                
                 Ambient standards (USA) 
                 Index 
                 Indoor 
                  
                   developing nations
                   
                 Law 
                  
                   Clean Air Act (USA)
                   
                 Ozone depletion
                 
               
             
             
              Emissions
              
                
                
                 Airshed 
                 Trading 
                 Deforestation (REDD)
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Energy
          
            
            
             Law 
             Resources 
             Fossil fuels&nbsp;(peak oil) 
             Geothermal 
             Hydro 
             Nuclear 
             Solar 
              
               sunlight 
               shade
               
             Wind
             
           
         
         
          Land
          
            
            
             Arable 
              
               peak farmland
               
             Degradation 
             Landscape 
              
               cityscape 
               seascape 
               soundscape 
               viewshed
               
             Law 
              
               property
               
             Management 
              
               habitat conservation
               
             Minerals 
              
               mining 
                
                 law 
                 sand
                 
               peak 
               rights
               
             Soil 
              
               conservation 
               fertility 
               health 
               resilience
               
             Use 
              
               planning 
               reserve
              
             
           
         
         
          Life
          
            
            
             Biodiversity 
             Bioprospecting 
             Biosphere 
             Bushfood 
             Bushmeat 
             Fisheries 
              
               climate change 
               law 
               management
               
             Forests 
              
               genetic resources 
               law 
               management 
               non-timber products
               
             Game 
              
               law
               
             Marine conservation 
             Plants 
              
               FAO Plant Treaty 
               food 
               genetic resources 
               gene banks 
               herbal medicines 
               UPOV Convention 
               wood
               
             Rangeland 
             Seed bank 
             Wildlife 
              
               conservation 
               management
              
             
           
         
         
          Water
          
           
           
            
             
              Types&nbsp;/ location
              
                
                
                 Aquifer 
                  
                   storage and recovery
                   
                 Drinking 
                 Fresh 
                 Groundwater 
                  
                   pollution 
                   recharge 
                   remediation
                   
                 Hydrosphere 
                 Ice 
                  
                   bergs 
                   glacial 
                   polar
                   
                 Irrigation 
                  
                   huerta
                   
                 Rain 
                  
                   harvesting
                   
                 Stormwater 
                 Surface water 
                 Sewage 
                  
                   Reclaimed water
                   
                 Watershed
                 
               
             
             
              Aspects
              
                
                
                 Desalination 
                 Floods 
                 Law 
                 Leaching 
                 Sanitation 
                 Conflict 
                 Conservation 
                 Peak water 
                 Pollution 
                 Privatization 
                 Quality 
                 Right 
                 Resources 
                  
                   management 
                   policy
                  
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Related
          
           
           
            
             
              
                
                
                 Commons 
                  
                   enclosure 
                   global 
                   land 
                   tragedy of
                   
                 Economics 
                  
                   ecological 
                   land
                   
                 Ecosystem services 
                 Exploitation 
                  
                   overexploitation 
                   Earth Overshoot Day
                   
                 Management 
                  
                   adaptive
                   
                 Natural capital 
                  
                   accounting
                   
                 Natural heritage 
                 Nature reserve 
                 Systems ecology 
                 Urban ecology 
                 Wilderness
                 
               
             
             
              Resource
              
                
                
                 Common-pool 
                 Conflict (perpetuation) 
                 Curse 
                 Depletion 
                 Extraction 
                 Nationalism 
                 Renewable&nbsp;/ Non-renewable
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Land-use_planning&amp;oldid=1059219697"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Land use
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with limited geographic scope from November 2011
       United States-centric
       Pages using collapsible list with both background and text-align in titlestyle
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       বাংলা
       한국어
       עברית
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 December 2021, at 04:41&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
