
 
  
   
  Human science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Human science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Study of the philosophical, biological, social, and cultural aspects of human life.
       
        
      
      
       "Moral science" redirects here. For the ethical concept, see Science of morality.
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Human science"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Human science (or human sciences in the plural), also known as humanistic social science and moral science (or moral sciences), studies the philosophical, biological, social, and cultural aspects of human life. Human science aims to expand our understanding of the human world through a broad interdisciplinary approach. It encompasses a wide range of fields - including history, philosophy, sociology, psychology, justice studies, evolutionary biology, biochemistry, neurosciences, folkloristics, and anthropology. It is the study and interpretation of the experiences, activities, constructs, and artifacts associated with human beings. The study of the human sciences attempts to expand and enlighten the human being's knowledge of their existence, its interrelationship with other species and systems, and the development of artifacts to perpetuate the human expression and thought. It is the study of human phenomena. The study of the human experience is historical and current in nature. It requires the evaluation and interpretation of the historic human experience and the analysis of current human activity to gain an understanding of human phenomena and to project the outlines of human evolution. Human science is the objective, informed critique of human existence and how it relates to reality. 
      Underlying human science is the relationship between various humanistic modes of inquiry within fields such as, history, sociology, folkloristics, anthropology and economics, and advances in such things as genetics, evolutionary biology and the social sciences for the purpose of understanding our lives in a rapidly changing world. Its use of an empirical methodology that encompasses psychological experience contrasts to the purely positivistic approach typical of the natural sciences which exclude all methods not based solely on sensory observations. Modern approaches in the human sciences integrate an understanding of human structure, function and adaptation with a broader exploration of what it means to be human. The term is also used to distinguish not only the content of a field of study from those of the natural sciences, but also its methodology.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Meaning of 'science' 
        2 History 
          
          2.1 Early development 
          2.2 Later development 
           
        3 Objective vs. subjective experiences 
        4 Human science in universities 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Bibliography 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Meaning of 'science' 
      Ambiguity and confusion regarding usage of the terms 'science', 'empirical science', and 'scientific method' have complicated the usage of the term 'human science' with respect to human activities. The term 'science' is derived from the Latin scientia meaning 'knowledge'. 'Science' may be appropriately used to refer to any branch of knowledge or study dealing with a body of facts or truths systematically arranged to show the operation of general laws. 
      However, according to positivists, the only authentic knowledge is scientific knowledge which comes from positive affirmation of theories through strict scientific method, the application of knowledge or mathematics. As a result of the positivist influence, the term science is frequently employed as a synonym for empirical science. Empirical science is knowledge based on the scientific method, a systematic approach to verification of knowledge first developed for dealing with natural physical phenomena and emphasizing the importance of experience based on sensory observation. However, even with regard to the natural sciences, significant difference exist among scientists and philosophers of science with regard to what constitutes valid scientific method—for example, evolutionary biology, geology and astronomy, studying events that cannot be repeated, can use a method of historical narratives. More recently, usage of the term has been extended to the study of human social phenomena. Thus, natural and social sciences are commonly classified as science, whereas the study of classics, languages, literature, music, philosophy, history, religion, and the visual and performing arts are referred to as the humanities. Ambiguity with respect to the meaning of the term science is aggravated by the widespread use of the term formal science with reference to any one of several sciences that is predominantly concerned with abstract form that cannot be validated by physical experience through the senses, such as logic, mathematics, and the theoretical branches of computer science, information theory, and statistics.  
      History 
      The phrase 'human science' in English was used during the 17th-century scientific revolution, for example by Theophilus Gale, to draw a distinction between supernatural knowledge (divine science) and study by humans (human science). John Locke also uses 'human science' to mean knowledge produced by people, but without the distinction. By the 20th century, this latter meaning was used at the same time as 'sciences that make human beings the topic of research'.  
      Early development 
      The term "moral science" was used by David Hume (1711-1776) in his Enquiry concerning the Principles of Morals to refer to the systematic study of human nature and relationships. Hume wished to establish a "science of human nature" based upon empirical phenomena, and excluding all that does not arise from observation. Rejecting teleological, theological and metaphysical explanations, Hume sought to develop an essentially descriptive methodology; phenomena were to be precisely characterized. He emphasized the necessity of carefully explicating the cognitive content of ideas and vocabulary, relating these to their empirical roots and real-world significance. 
      A variety of early thinkers in the humanistic sciences took up Hume's direction. Adam Smith, for example, conceived of economics as a moral science in the Humean sense.  
      Later development 
      Partly in reaction to the establishment of positivist philosophy and the latter's Comtean intrusions into traditionally humanistic areas such as sociology, non-positivistic researchers in the humanistic sciences began to carefully but emphatically distinguish the methodological approach appropriate to these areas of study, for which the unique and distinguishing characteristics of phenomena are in the forefront (e.g. for the biographer), from that appropriate to the natural sciences, for which the ability to link phenomena into generalized groups is foremost. In this sense, Johann Gustav Droysen contrasted the humanistic science's need to comprehend the phenomena under consideration with natural science's need to explain phenomena, while Windelband coined the terms idiographic for a descriptive study of the individual nature of phenomena, and nomothetic for sciences that aim to define the generalizing laws. 
      Wilhelm Dilthey brought nineteenth-century attempts to formulate a methodology appropriate to the humanistic sciences together with Hume's term "moral science", which he translated as Geisteswissenschaft - a term with no exact English equivalent. Dilthey attempted to articulate the entire range of the moral sciences in a comprehensive and systematic way.: Chap. I  Meanwhile, his conception of “Geisteswissenschaften” encompasses also the abovementioned study of classics, languages, literature, music, philosophy, history, religion, and the visual and performing arts. He characterized the scientific nature of a study as depending upon:: Chapter XI   
      
       The conviction that perception gives access to reality 
       The self-evident nature of logical reasoning 
       The principle of sufficient reason
       
      But the specific nature of the Geisteswissenschaften is based on the "inner" experience (Erleben), the "comprehension" (Verstehen) of the meaning of expressions and "understanding" in terms of the relations of the part and the whole – in contrast to the Naturwissenschaften, the "explanation" of phenomena by hypothetical laws in the "natural sciences".: p. 86  
      Edmund Husserl, a student of Franz Brentano, articulated his phenomenological philosophy in a way that could be thought as a basis of Dilthey's attempt. Dilthey appreciated Husserl's Logische Untersuchungen (1900/1901, the first draft of Husserl's Phenomenology) as an “epoch making“ epistemological foundation of his conception of Geisteswissenschaften.: p. 14  
      In recent years, 'human science' has been used to refer to "a philosophy and approach to science that seeks to understand human experience in deeply subjective, personal, historical, contextual, cross-cultural, political, and spiritual terms. Human science is the science of qualities rather than of quantities and closes the subject-object split in science. In particular, it addresses the ways in which self-reflection, art, music, poetry, drama, language and imagery reveal the human condition. By being interpretive, reflective, and appreciative, human science re-opens the conversation among science, art, and philosophy."  
      Objective vs. subjective experiences 
      Since Auguste Comte, the positivistic social sciences have sought to imitate the approach of the natural sciences by emphasizing the importance of objective external observations and searching for universal laws whose operation is predicated on external initial conditions that do not take into account differences in subjective human perception and attitude. Critics argue that subjective human experience and intention plays such a central role in determining human social behavior that an objective approach to the social sciences is too confining. Rejecting the positivist influence, they argue that the scientific method can rightly be applied to subjective, as well as objective, experience. The term subjective is used in this context to refer to inner psychological experience rather than outer sensory experience. It is not used in the sense of being prejudiced by personal motives or beliefs.  
      Human science in universities 
      Since 1878, the University of Cambridge has been home to the Moral Sciences Club, with strong ties to analytic philosophy. 
      The Human Science degree is relatively young. It has been a degree subject at Oxford since 1969. At University College London, it was proposed in 1973 by Professor J. Z. Young and implemented two years later. His aim was to train general science graduates who would be scientifically literate, numerate and easily able to communicate across a wide range of disciplines, replacing the traditional Classics training for higher-level government and management careers. Central topics include the evolution of humans, their behaviour, molecular and population genetics, population growth and ageing, ethnic and cultural diversity and the human interaction with the environment, including conservation, disease and nutrition. The study of both biological and social disciplines, integrated within a framework of human diversity and sustainability, should enable the human scientist to develop professional competencies suited to address such multidimensional human problems. In the United Kingdom, Human Science is offered at degree level at several institutions, these include:  
      
       University of Oxford 
       University College London (as Human Sciences and as Human Sciences and Evolution) 
       King's College London (as Anatomy, Developmental &amp; Human Biology) 
       University of Exeter 
       Durham University (as Health and Human Sciences) 
       Cardiff University (as Human and Social Sciences) 
       Osaka University
       
      See also 
      
       History of the Human Sciences (journal) 
       Social science
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Human Sciences". University of Oxford. Archived from the original on 4 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2017.  
         ^ 
           "History of the Human Sciences". SAGE Publications Inc. Archived from the original on 4 March 2017. Retrieved 3 March 2017.  
         ^ a b Georg Henrik von Wright, Explanation and Understanding, 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-8014-0644-7, pp. 4–7  
         ^ Popper, Karl, Logic of Scientific Discovery, Routledge, 2002.  
         ^ Mayr, Ernst. Darwin's Influence on Modern Thought. Archived 2006-07-17 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           Theophilus Gale (1677). The Court of the Gentiles, Or, A Discourse Touching the Original of Human Literature: Both Philologie and Philosophie, from the Scriptures &amp; Jewish Church&nbsp;: in Order of a Demonstration Of, I. The Perfection of Gods Word, and Church-light. II. The Imperfection of Natures Light ... III. The Right Use of Human Learning ... H. Hall. pp.&nbsp;3–.  
         ^ 
           John Locke (1753). An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. S. Birt. pp.&nbsp;170–. Archived from the original on 2021-01-27. Retrieved 2018-09-17.  
         ^ 
           Herbert Spencer Jennings (1930). The Biological Basis of Human Nature. W.W. Norton, Incorporated. ISBN&nbsp;9780841454071. Archived from the original on 2021-01-27. Retrieved 2018-09-17.  
         ^ 
           United States. Congress. House. Committee on Education (1928). Proposed department of education: Hearing before the Committee on education, House of Representatives, Seventieth Congress, first session on H. R. 7, a bill to create a department of education and for other purposes. April 25, 26, 27,28 and May 2, 1928. U.S. Govt. print. off. Archived from the original on January 27, 2021. Retrieved September 17, 2018.  
         ^ "David Hume" Archived 2020-07-31 at the Wayback Machine, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy  
         ^ Book Review Archived 2006-09-27 at the Wayback Machine of Jeffrey T. Young's Economics As a Moral Science: The Political Economy of Adam Smith  
         ^ a b Wilhelm Dilthey, An Introduction to the Human Sciences, Princeton Press  
         ^ a b Wilhelm Dilthey, Gesammelte Schriften, vol. VII  
         ^ Edmund Husserl, Logical Investigations, 1973 , Findlay, J. N., trans. London: Routledge  
         ^ 
           "Saybrook Graduate School". Saybrook.edu. Archived from the original on 2013-01-16. Retrieved 2019-03-19.  
         ^ 
           "The Moral Sciences Club (A Short History)". Cambridge Faculty of Philosophy. Archived from the original on 2020-07-24. Retrieved 2020-07-24.  
         ^ 
           "Human Sciences | University of Oxford". Ox.ac.uk. 2019-03-07. Archived from the original on 2019-03-21. Retrieved 2019-03-19.  
         ^ 
           "Subject areas | UCL London's Global University". Ucl.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 2018-09-11. Retrieved 2019-03-19.  
         ^ 
           "Human Sciences | Undergraduate Study | University of Exeter". Exeter.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 2019-03-31. Retrieved 2019-03-19.  
         ^ 
           "Graduate School of Human Sciences / School of Human Sciences Osaka University". Hus.osaka-u.ac.jp. Archived from the original on 2019-03-14. Retrieved 2019-03-19.  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       Flew, A. (1986). David Hume: Philosopher of Moral Science, Basil Blackwell, Oxford 
       Hume, David, An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals
       
      External links 
      
       Institute for Comparative Research in Human and Social Sciences (ICR) -Japan 
       Human Science Lab -London 
       Human Science(s) across Global Academies 
       Marxism philosophy
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Social sciences
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             History 
             Index
             
           
         
         
          Primary
          
            
            
             Anthropology (archaeology 
             cultural 
             linguistics 
             social) 
             Economics (microeconomics 
             macroeconomics 
             econometrics 
             mathematical) 
             Geography (physical 
             human 
             integrated 
             geomatics 
             regional) 
             History 
              
               cultural 
               auxiliary sciences 
               economic 
               human 
               military 
               political 
               social
               
             Law (jurisprudence 
             legal history 
             legal systems 
             public law 
             private law) 
             Political science (international relations 
             comparative 
             theory 
             public policy) 
             Psychology (abnormal 
             cognitive 
             developmental 
             personality 
             social) 
             Sociology (criminology 
             demography 
             internet 
             rural 
             urban)
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinary
          
            
            
             Administration (business 
             public) 
             Anthrozoology 
             Area studies 
             Business studies 
             Cognitive science 
             Communication studies 
             Community studies 
             Cultural studies 
             Development studies 
             Education 
             Environmental (social science 
             studies) 
             Food studies 
             Gender studies 
             Global studies 
             Historical sociology 
             History of technology 
             Human ecology 
             Information science 
             International studies 
             Linguistics 
             Media studies 
             Philosophy of science (economics 
             history 
             psychology 
             social science) 
             Planning (land use 
             regional 
             urban) 
             Political ecology 
             Political economy 
             Political sociology 
             Public health 
             Regional science 
             Science and technology studies 
             Science studies 
              
               historical 
               Quantum social science
               
             Social work 
             Vegan studies
             
           
         
         
          List
          
            
            
             List of social science journals
             
           
         
         
          Other categorizations
          
            
            
             Humanities 
             Geisteswissenschaft 
             Human science
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
             &nbsp;Society portal 
              Wikiversity
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Positivism
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              Perspectives
              
                
                
                 Antihumanism 
                 Empiricism 
                 Rationalism 
                 Scientism
                 
               
             
             
              Declinations
              
                
                
                 Legal positivism 
                 Logical positivism&nbsp;/ analytic philosophy 
                 Positivist school 
                 Postpositivism 
                 Sociological positivism 
                 Machian positivism (empirio-criticism) 
                 Rankean historical positivism 
                 Polish positivism 
                 Russian Machism
                 
               
             
             
              Principal concepts
              
                
                
                 Consilience 
                 Demarcation 
                 Evidence 
                 Induction 
                 Justification 
                 Pseudoscience 
                 Critique of metaphysics 
                 Unity of science 
                 Verificationism
                 
               
             
             
              Antitheses
              
                
                
                 Antipositivism 
                 Confirmation holism 
                 Critical theory 
                 Falsifiability 
                 Geisteswissenschaft 
                 Hermeneutics 
                 Historicism 
                 Historism 
                 Human science 
                 Humanities 
                 Methodological dualism 
                 Problem of induction 
                 Reflectivism
                 
               
             
             
              Related paradigm shiftsin the history of science
              
                
                
                 Non-Euclidean geometry (1830s) 
                 Uncertainty principle (1927)
                 
               
             
             
              Related topics
              
                
                
                 Behavioralism 
                  
                   Post-behavioralism
                   
                 Critical rationalism 
                 Criticism of science 
                 Epistemology 
                  
                   anarchism 
                   idealism 
                   nihilism 
                   pluralism 
                   realism
                   
                 Holism 
                 Instrumentalism 
                 Modernism 
                 Naturalism in literature 
                 Nomothetic–idiographic distinction 
                 Objectivity in science 
                 Operationalism 
                 Phenomenalism 
                 Philosophy of science 
                  
                   Deductive-nomological model 
                   Ramsey sentence 
                   Sense-data theory
                   
                 Qualitative research 
                 Relationship between religion and science 
                 Sociology 
                 Social science 
                  
                   Philosophy
                   
                 Structural functionalism 
                 Structuralism 
                 Structuration theory
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Positivist-related debate
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Method
                  
                    
                    
                     Methodenstreit (1890s) 
                     Werturteilsstreit (1909–1959) 
                     Positivismusstreit (1960s) 
                     Fourth Great Debate in international relations (1980s) 
                     Science wars (1990s)
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Contributions
                  
                    
                    
                     The Course in Positive Philosophy (1830) 
                     A General View of Positivism (1848) 
                     Critical History of Philosophy (1869) 
                     Idealism and Positivism (1879–1884) 
                     The Analysis of Sensations (1886) 
                     The Logic of Modern Physics (1927) 
                     Language, Truth, and Logic (1936) 
                     The Two Cultures (1959) 
                     The Universe in a Nutshell (2001)
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Proponents
                  
                    
                    
                     Richard Avenarius 
                     A. J. Ayer 
                     Alexander Bogdanov 
                     Auguste Comte 
                     Eugen Dühring 
                     Émile Durkheim 
                     Ernst Laas 
                     Ernst Mach 
                     Berlin Circle 
                     Vienna Circle
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Criticism
                  
                    
                    
                     Materialism and Empirio-criticism (1909) 
                     History and Class Consciousness (1923) 
                     The Logic of Scientific Discovery (1934) 
                     The Poverty of Historicism (1936) 
                     World Hypotheses (1942) 
                     Two Dogmas of Empiricism (1951) 
                     Truth and Method (1960) 
                     The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962) 
                     Conjectures and Refutations (1963) 
                     One-Dimensional Man (1964) 
                     Knowledge and Human Interests (1968) 
                     The Poverty of Theory (1978) 
                     The Scientific Image (1980) 
                     The Rhetoric of Economics (1986)
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Critics
                  
                    
                    
                     Theodor W. Adorno 
                     Gaston Bachelard 
                     Mario Bunge 
                     Wilhelm Dilthey 
                     Paul Feyerabend 
                     Hans-Georg Gadamer 
                     Thomas Kuhn 
                     György Lukács 
                     Karl Popper 
                     Willard Van Orman Quine 
                     Max Weber
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Concepts in contention
                  
                    
                    
                     Knowledge 
                     Objectivity 
                     Phronesis 
                     Truth 
                     Verstehen
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
            Category
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Human_science&amp;oldid=1061469697"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Human sciences
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from February 2011
       All articles needing additional references
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from October 2012
       Articles containing German-language text
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Frysk
       Galego
       한국어
       Latina
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Македонски
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Português
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 December 2021, at 22:25&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
