
 
  
   
  Portal:Social Sciences - Wikiversity 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
   Portal:Social Sciences 
    
    
     From Wikiversity
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         &nbsp;
         Portal:Social Sciences
         &nbsp;
         Learn
         &nbsp;
         Participate
         &nbsp;
        
       
      
      
        
        
         
          edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
         
         
          The Social Sciences Portal
         
        
         
         
          
            
           
            
             
            Cold war
           
          
          
         
          
            
           
            
             
            Social learning
           
          
          
         Welcome to the Social Sciences Portal! This dashboard provides you with a division of Wikiversity that is similar to a "school" at a brick-and-mortar university. Here you will find links to various divisions, schools, research projects, learning resources, and so much more. 
         The Social Sciences were created for the study of social groups and, more generally, human society. This has become an interesting and fascinating endeavour for programs such as Wikiversity that do not cater to just one social group but for a global audience. As a result, the education efforts that we pursue in Wikiversity's Social Sciences Portal should be both specific and universal. For instructors it is recommended that a broad range of material is presented to students such that they are able to pursue academic rigour in a variety of subject areas and not from a culturally-specific point of view. Rather, students should be given options in selecting multiple points of perspective on the various issues that affect the study of global society. Consequently, students will be encouraged to engage in learning multiple perspectives about the same problem-set, as one finds that the approach to subject-matter on one side of the planet is not always the same as it is on the other. Let us hope that both students and teachers will engage in this worthwhile endeavour to explore the various aspects of the global social landscape as we seek to increase our understanding of ourselves and of one another.  
        
         
        
         
         
         
          
           edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
          
          
           Featured Resource
          
         
          
           
           Media literacy  
           
           
           
             
              
              
               Theory and Practice of Media Literacy 
               
               
               A resource for scholars and others interested in media literacy. This document was originally developed by graduate students enrolled in BTMM 589, "Theory and Practice of Media Literacy Education" which was taught by Professor Renee Hobbs in the Fall of 2006 at Temple University's School of Communication and Theater. Students enrolled in the course in the Fall of 2007 continue to develop, modify and expand the site, contributing their own understanding of the course readings and critical analysis. Renee: Current students and the instructor share their ideas, thoughts and questions about the readings by highlighting them. Readers are invited to participate in the inquiry process by adding questions or ideas of your own.  
               
                
                
               
                
                 Linked Pages of Interest
                 
                
                 1. Media literacy
                 
                
                 2. Why is Media Literacy Important
                 
                
                 3. Intellectual Traditions in Media Literacy
                 
                
                 4. Media Literacy in K-12 Settings
                 
                
                 5. Great Debates in Media Literacy
                 
                
                 6. What does Media Literacy look like in Non-School Settings
                 
                
                 7. Research on Media Literacy
                
                
               
            
           
           
          (more...)  
           
         
          
         
          
         
          
           edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
          
          
           Featured Picture
          
         
          
          
           
            
              
             
              
               
              Kruja, Albania
             
            
           
           
         
          
         
          
         
         
         
          
           edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
          
          
           Categories
          
         
          
          
           
            
               Social sciences‎ (30 cats, 19 pgs)
            
            
             
              
                 Anthropology‎ (9 cats, 28 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Business‎ (33 cats, 111 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Communication‎ (14 cats, 18 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Conservation sciences‎ (1 cat)
              
              
             
             
              
                Corporate social responsibility‎ (45 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Criminal justice‎ (7 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Cultural studies‎ (5 cats, 6 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Domestic violence‎ (empty)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Economics‎ (14 cats, 103 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Education‎ (37 cats, 269 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Ethnology‎ (8 cats, 10 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Facilitating Online‎ (27 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Geography‎ (10 cats, 31 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 History‎ (16 cats, 146 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Home Economics‎ (3 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Information sciences‎ (6 cats, 4 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Language studies‎ (3 cats, 1 pg)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Law‎ (9 cats, 8 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Mortuary science and thanatology‎ (1 pg)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Political science‎ (21 cats, 83 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Psychology‎ (76 cats, 75 pgs, 1 file)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Recreation‎ (6 cats, 2 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 School of Life‎ (1 cat, 2 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Social research‎ (8 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Social Science courses‎ (12 cats, 7 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Social Sciences stubs‎ (7 cats, 1 pg)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Social theory‎ (1 cat, 3 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Social work‎ (1 pg)
              
              
             
             
              
                 Sociology‎ (16 cats, 43 pgs)
              
              
             
             
              
                Women's studies‎ (7 pgs)
              
              
             
            
           
           
         
          
         
          
         
          
           edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
          
          
           Related Categories
          
         
          
          
           
            
               Humanities‎ (14 cats, 48 pgs)
            
            
           
           
         
          
         
          
         
          
           edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
          
          
           Related Portals
          
         
          
          
           Portal:Anthropology 
           Portal:History 
           Portal:Humanities 
           Portal:Interdisciplinary Studies 
           School:History 
           School:Psychology 
           Peace Studies
           
         
          
         
          
         
         
        
         
          edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
         
         
          Major Wikiversity Portals
         
        
         
          
           
           Content by Subject Arts&nbsp;· Humanities&nbsp;· Mathematics&nbsp;· Medicine&nbsp;· Science&nbsp;· Social Sciences&nbsp;· Technology  
           
           
           
           Content by Level Pre-school Education&nbsp;· Primary Education&nbsp;· Secondary Education&nbsp;· Tertiary Education&nbsp;· Non-formal Education&nbsp;· Research  
           
          
        
         
        
         
        
         
          edit&nbsp;&nbsp;
         
         
          Wikimedia
         
        
         
          
           
           The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject: 
            
            Wikipedia Encyclopedia  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikibooks Books  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Commons Media  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikinews&nbsp; News  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikiquote&nbsp; Quotations  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikisource&nbsp; Texts  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikivoyage&nbsp; Travel guides  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wiktionary&nbsp; Definitions  
            
             
              
             
             
            
            
            Wikidata&nbsp; Database  
            
             
              
             
             
            
           
          
        
         
        
         
        
         
         
        
       
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikiversity.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Social_Sciences&amp;oldid=2290733"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Social sciences
       Subject portals
      
     
     
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Portal
        Discuss
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        Edit source
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main Page
       Browse
       Recent changes
       Guided tours
       Random
       Help
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Community  
      
      
       Portal
       Colloquium
       News
       Projects
       Sandbox
       Help desk
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Wikimedia projects  
      
      
       Commons
       Wikibooks
       Wikidata
       Wikinews
       Wikipedia
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       Wikispecies
       Wikivoyage
       Wiktionary
       Meta-Wiki
       Outreach
       MediaWiki
       Wikimania
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Create a book
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikibooks
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      In other languages  
      
      
       العربية
       日本語
       한국어
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 16 June 2021, at 00:22. 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikiversity 
    Disclaimers 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
    
 
