
 
  
   
  User interface design - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   User interface design 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Planned operator–machine interaction
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The graphical user interface is presented (displayed) on the computer screen. It is the result of processed user input and usually the primary interface for human-machine interaction. The touch user interfaces popular on small mobile devices are an overlay of the visual output to the visual input.
        
       
       
      User interface (UI) design or user interface engineering is the design of user interfaces for machines and software, such as computers, home appliances, mobile devices, and other electronic devices, with the focus on maximizing usability and the user experience. The goal of user interface design is to make the user's interaction as simple and efficient as possible, in terms of accomplishing user goals (user-centered design). 
      Good user interface design facilitates finishing the task at hand without drawing unnecessary attention to itself. Graphic design and typography are utilized to support its usability, influencing how the user performs certain interactions and improving the aesthetic appeal of the design; design aesthetics may enhance or detract from the ability of users to use the functions of the interface. The design process must balance technical functionality and visual elements (e.g., mental model) to create a system that is not only operational but also usable and adaptable to changing user needs. 
      Interface design is involved in a wide range of projects, from computer systems, to cars, to commercial planes; all of these projects involve much of the same basic human interactions yet also require some unique skills and knowledge. As a result, designers tend to specialize in certain types of projects and have skills centered on their expertise, whether it is software design, user research, web design, or industrial design.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Processes 
        2 Requirements 
        3 Research 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        
       
      Processes 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Printable template for mobile and desktop app design (pdf).
        
       
       
      User interface design requires a good understanding of user needs. It mainly focuses on the needs of the platform and its user expectations. There are several phases and processes in the user interface design, some of which are more demanded upon than others, depending on the project. (Note: for the remainder of this section, the word system is used to denote any project whether it is a website, application, or device.)  
      
       Functionality requirements gathering – assembling a list of the functionality required by the system to accomplish the goals of the project and the potential needs of the users. 
       User and task analysis – a form of field research, it's the analysis of the potential users of the system by studying how they perform the tasks that the design must support, and conducting interviews to elaborate their goals. Typical questions involve: 
        
         What would the user want the system to do? 
         How would the system fit in with the user's normal workflow or daily activities? 
         How technically savvy is the user and what similar systems does the user already use? 
         What interface look &amp; feel styles appeal to the user?
         
       Information architecture – development of the process and/or information flow of the system (i.e. for phone tree systems, this would be an option tree flowchart and for web sites this would be a site flow that shows the hierarchy of the pages). 
       Prototyping – development of wire-frames, either in the form of paper prototypes or simple interactive screens. These prototypes are stripped of all look &amp; feel elements and most content in order to concentrate on the interface. 
       Usability inspection – letting an evaluator inspect a user interface. This is generally considered to be cheaper to implement than usability testing (see step below), and can be used early on in the development process since it can be used to evaluate prototypes or specifications for the system, which usually cannot be tested on users. Some common usability inspection methods include cognitive walkthrough, which focuses the simplicity to accomplish tasks with the system for new users, heuristic evaluation, in which a set of heuristics are used to identify usability problems in the UI design, and pluralistic walkthrough, in which a selected group of people step through a task scenario and discuss usability issues. 
       Usability testing – testing of the prototypes on an actual user—often using a technique called think aloud protocol where you ask the user to talk about their thoughts during the experience. User interface design testing allows the designer to understand the reception of the design from the viewer's standpoint, and thus facilitates creating successful applications. 
       Graphical user interface design – actual look and feel design of the final graphical user interface (GUI). These are design’s control panels and faces; voice-controlled interfaces involve oral-auditory interaction, while gesture-based interfaces witness users engaging with 3D design spaces via bodily motions. It may be based on the findings developed during the user research, and refined to fix any usability problems found through the results of testing. Depending on the type of interface being created, this process typically involves some computer programming in order to validate forms, establish links or perform a desired action. 
       Software maintenance – after the deployment of a new interface, occasional maintenance may be required to fix software bugs, change features, or completely upgrade the system. Once a decision is made to upgrade the interface, the legacy system will undergo another version of the design process, and will begin to repeat the stages of the interface life cycle.
       
      Requirements 
      The dynamic characteristics of a system are described in terms of the dialogue requirements contained in seven principles of part 10 of the ergonomics standard, the ISO 9241. This standard establishes a framework of ergonomic "principles" for the dialogue techniques with high-level definitions and illustrative applications and examples of the principles. The principles of the dialogue represent the dynamic aspects of the interface and can be mostly regarded as the "feel" of the interface. The seven dialogue principles are:  
      
       Suitability for the task: the dialogue is suitable for a task when it supports the user in the effective and efficient completion of the task. 
       Self-descriptiveness: the dialogue is self-descriptive when each dialogue step is immediately comprehensible through feedback from the system or is explained to the user on request. 
       Controllability: the dialogue is controllable when the user is able to initiate and control the direction and pace of the interaction until the point at which the goal has been met. 
       Conformity with user expectations: the dialogue conforms with user expectations when it is consistent and corresponds to the user characteristics, such as task knowledge, education, experience, and to commonly accepted conventions. 
       Error tolerance: the dialogue is error-tolerant if, despite evident errors in input, the intended result may be achieved with either no or minimal action by the user. 
       Suitability for individualization: the dialogue is capable of individualization when the interface software can be modified to suit the task needs, individual preferences, and skills of the user. 
       Suitability for learning: the dialogue is suitable for learning when it supports and guides the user in learning to use the system.
       
      The concept of usability is defined of the ISO 9241 standard by effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction of the user. Part 11 gives the following definition of usability:  
      
       Usability is measured by the extent to which the intended goals of use of the overall system are achieved (effectiveness). 
       The resources that have to be expended to achieve the intended goals (efficiency). 
       The extent to which the user finds the overall system acceptable (satisfaction).
       
      Effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction can be seen as quality factors of usability. To evaluate these factors, they need to be decomposed into sub-factors, and finally, into usability measures. 
      The information presented is described in Part 12 of the ISO 9241 standard for the organization of information (arrangement, alignment, grouping, labels, location), for the display of graphical objects, and for the coding of information (abbreviation, colour, size, shape, visual cues) by seven attributes. The "attributes of presented information" represent the static aspects of the interface and can be generally regarded as the "look" of the interface. The attributes are detailed in the recommendations given in the standard. Each of the recommendations supports one or more of the seven attributes. The seven presentation attributes are:  
      
       Clarity: the information content is conveyed quickly and accurately. 
       Discriminability: the displayed information can be distinguished accurately. 
       Conciseness: users are not overloaded with extraneous information. 
       Consistency: a unique design, conformity with user's expectation. 
       Detectability: the user's attention is directed towards information required. 
       Legibility: information is easy to read. 
       Comprehensibility: the meaning is clearly understandable, unambiguous, interpretable, and recognizable.
       
      The user guidance in Part 13 of the ISO 9241 standard describes that the user guidance information should be readily distinguishable from other displayed information and should be specific for the current context of use. User guidance can be given by the following five means:  
      
       Prompts indicating explicitly (specific prompts) or implicitly (generic prompts) that the system is available for input. 
       Feedback informing about the user's input timely, perceptible, and non-intrusive. 
       Status information indicating the continuing state of the application, the system's hardware and software components, and the user's activities. 
       Error management including error prevention, error correction, user support for error management, and error messages. 
       On-line help for system-initiated and user-initiated requests with specific information for the current context of use.
       
      Research 
      User interface design has been a topic of considerable research, including on its aesthetics. Standards have been developed as far back as the 1980s for defining the usability of software products. One of the structural bases has become the IFIP user interface reference model. The model proposes four dimensions to structure the user interface:  
      
       The input/output dimension (the look) 
       The dialogue dimension (the feel) 
       The technical or functional dimension (the access to tools and services) 
       The organizational dimension (the communication and co-operation support)
       
      This model has greatly influenced the development of the international standard ISO 9241 describing the interface design requirements for usability. The desire to understand application-specific UI issues early in software development, even as an application was being developed, led to research on GUI rapid prototyping tools that might offer convincing simulations of how an actual application might behave in production use. Some of this research has shown that a wide variety of programming tasks for GUI-based software can, in fact, be specified through means other than writing program code. 
      Research in recent years is strongly motivated by the increasing variety of devices that can, by virtue of Moore's law, host very complex interfaces.  
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiversity has learning resources about User interfaces
         
       
       
      
       
       
        Chief experience officer (CXO) 
        Cognitive dimensions 
        Discoverability 
        Experience design 
        Gender HCI 
        Human interface guidelines 
        Human-computer interaction 
        Icon design 
        Information architecture 
        Interaction design 
        Interaction design pattern 
        Interaction Flow Modeling Language (IFML) 
        Interaction technique 
        Knowledge visualization 
        Look and feel 
        Mobile interaction 
        Natural mapping (interface design) 
        New Interfaces for Musical Expression 
        Participatory design 
        Principles of user interface design 
        Process-centered design 
        Progressive disclosure 
        User experience design 
        User-centered design
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Norman, D. A. (2002). "Emotion &amp; Design: Attractive things work better". Interactions Magazine, ix (4). pp.&nbsp;36–42. Retrieved 20 April 2014.  
         ^ 
           Wolf, Lauren (23 May 2012). "6 Tips for Designing an Optimal User Interface for Your Digital Event". INXPO. Archived from the original on 16 June 2013. Retrieved 22 May 2013.}: CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)  
         ^ 
           Ann Blandford. "Semi-structured qualitative studies". The Encyclopedia of Human-Computer Interaction, 2nd Ed. Interaction Design Foundation. Retrieved 20 April 2014.  
         ^ 
           Karen Holtzblatt and Hugh R. Beyer. "Contextual design". The Encyclopedia of Human-Computer Interaction, 2nd Ed. Interaction Design Foundation. Retrieved 20 April 2014.  
         ^ 
           Martin Fowler. "Forms and control". GUI architecture. thoughtworks publication. Retrieved 20 February 2017.  
         ^ 
           "8 Stages in an HL7 Interface Lifecycle - Caristix". Caristix. 2010-10-05. Retrieved 2017-03-01.  
         ^ 
           "The role of context in perceptions of the aesthetics of web pages over time". International Journal of Human–Computer Studies. 2009-01-05. Retrieved 2009-04-02.  
         ^ 
           "The HUMANOID model of interface design". Proceedings CHI'92. 1992.  
         ^ 
           "Creating user interfaces using programming by example, visual programming, and constraints". ACM. 1990-04-11. Retrieved 2009-04-02.  
         ^ 
           "Past, present, and future of user interface software tools". ACM. 2000-03-01. Retrieved 2009-04-02.  
        
       
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            User interfaces
           
         
         
          Natural-language user interfaces
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Dialogue system 
             Voice user interfaces 
             Conversational user interface 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice search
             
           
         
         
          Graphical user interfaces
          
            
            
             Widgets 
             Zooming user interface 
             3D GUI
             
           
         
         
          Touch user interfaces
          
            
            
             Multi-touch 
             Tangible user interface
             
           
         
         
          3D user interfaces
          
            
            
             Augmented and virtual reality 
             3D interaction 
             Finger tracking 
             Positional tracking
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Designer
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Disciplines
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Communicationdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Advertising 
                     Book design 
                     Brand design 
                     Exhibit design 
                     Film title design 
                     Graphic design 
                      
                       Motion 
                       Postage stamp design 
                       Print design
                       
                     Illustration 
                     Information design 
                     Instructional design 
                     News design 
                     Photography 
                     Retail design 
                     Signage&nbsp;/ Traffic sign design 
                     Typography&nbsp;/ Type design 
                     Video design 
                     Visual merchandising
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Environmentaldesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Architecture 
                     Architectural lighting design 
                     Building design 
                      
                       Passive solar
                       
                     Ecological design 
                     Environmental impact design 
                     Garden design 
                      
                       Computer-aided
                       
                     Healthy community design 
                     Hotel design 
                     Interior architecture 
                     Interior design 
                      
                       EID
                       
                     Keyline design 
                     Landscape architecture 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Landscape design 
                     Spatial design 
                     Urban design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Industrialdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Automotive design 
                     Automotive suspension design 
                     CMF design 
                     Corrugated box design 
                     Electric guitar design 
                     Furniture design 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Motorcycle design 
                     Packaging and labeling 
                     Photographic lens design 
                     Product design 
                     Production design 
                     Sensory design 
                     Service design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Interactiondesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Experience design 
                      
                       EED
                       
                     Game design 
                      
                       Level design 
                       Video game design
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Icon design 
                     Immersive design 
                     Information design 
                     Sonic interaction design 
                     User experience design 
                     User interface design 
                     Web design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherapplied arts
                  
                    
                    
                     Public art design 
                     Ceramic&nbsp;/ glass design 
                     Fashion design 
                      
                       Costume design 
                       Jewellery design
                       
                     Floral design 
                     Game art design 
                     Property design 
                     Scenic design 
                     Sound design 
                     Stage/set lighting design 
                     Textile design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherdesign&amp; engineering
                  
                    
                    
                     Algorithm design 
                     Behavioural design 
                     Boiler design 
                     Database design 
                     Drug design 
                     Electrical system design 
                     Experimental design 
                     Filter design 
                     Geometric design 
                     Work design 
                     Integrated circuit design 
                      
                       Circuit design 
                       Physical design 
                       Power network design
                       
                     Mechanism design 
                     Nuclear weapon design 
                     Nucleic acid design 
                     Organization design 
                     Process design 
                     Processor design 
                     Protein design 
                     Research design 
                     Social design 
                     Software design 
                     Spacecraft design 
                     Strategic design 
                     Systems design
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Approaches
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Activity-centered 
                 Adaptive web 
                 Affective 
                 Brainstorming 
                 By committee 
                 By contract 
                 C-K theory 
                 Closure 
                 Co-design 
                 Concept-oriented 
                 Configuration 
                 Contextual 
                 Continuous 
                 Cradle-to-cradle 
                 Creative problem-solving 
                 Creativity techniques 
                 Critical 
                  
                   Design fiction
                   
                 Defensive 
                 Design–bid–build 
                 Design–build 
                  
                   architect-led
                   
                 Diffuse 
                 Domain-driven 
                 Ecological design 
                 Energy neutral 
                 Engineering design process 
                  
                   Probabilistic design
                   
                 Error-tolerant 
                 Fault-tolerant 
                 Framework-oriented 
                 For assembly 
                 For behaviour change 
                 For manufacturability 
                 For Six Sigma 
                 For testing 
                 For X 
                 Functional 
                 Generative 
                 Geodesign 
                 HCD 
                 High-level 
                 Inclusive 
                 Integrated 
                 Integrated topside 
                 Intelligence-based 
                 Iterative 
                 KISS principle 
                 Low-level 
                 Metadesign 
                 Mind mapping 
                 Modular 
                 New Wave 
                 Object-oriented 
                 Open 
                 Parametric 
                 Participatory 
                 Platform-based 
                 Policy-based 
                 Process-centered 
                 Public interest 
                 Rational 
                 Regenerative 
                 Reliability engineering 
                 Research-based 
                 Responsibility-driven 
                 RWD 
                 Safe-life 
                 Sustainable 
                 Systemic 
                  
                   SOD
                   
                 Tableless web 
                 Theory of constraints 
                 Top-down and bottom-up 
                 Transformation 
                 Transgenerational 
                 TRIZ 
                 Universal 
                  
                   Design for All
                   
                 Usage-centered 
                 Use-centered 
                 User-centered 
                  
                   Empathic
                   
                 User innovation 
                 Value-driven 
                 Value sensitive 
                  
                   Privacy by
                  
                 
                
                 Design choice 
                 computing 
                 controls 
                 culture 
                 flow 
                 leadership 
                 management 
                 marker 
                 methods 
                 pattern 
                 research 
                 science 
                 sprint 
                 strategy 
                 theory 
                 thinking
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  Intellectual property
                  Organizations
                  Awards
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  
                    
                    
                     AAD 
                     Architectural model 
                     Blueprint 
                     Comprehensive layout 
                     CAD 
                      
                       CAID 
                       Virtual home design software
                       
                     CAutoD 
                     Design quality indicator 
                     Electronic design automation 
                     Flowchart 
                     Mockup 
                     Design specification 
                     Prototype 
                     Sketch 
                     Storyboard 
                     Technical drawing 
                     HTML editor 
                     Website wireframe
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Intellectualproperty
                  
                    
                    
                     Community design 
                     Design around 
                     Design infringement 
                     Design patent 
                     Fashion design copyright 
                     Geschmacksmuster 
                     Industrial design rights 
                      
                       European Union
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Organizations
                  
                    
                    
                     American Institute of Graphic Arts 
                     Chartered Society of Designers 
                     Design and Industries Association 
                     Design Council 
                     International Forum Design 
                     The Design Society 
                     Design Research Society
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Awards
                  
                    
                    
                     European Design Award 
                     German Design Award 
                     Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
                     Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
                     Graphex 
                     IF Product Design Award 
                     James Dyson Award 
                     Prince Philip Designers Prize
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related topics
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Aesthetics 
                 Agile 
                 Concept art 
                 Conceptual design 
                 Creative industries 
                 Cultural icon 
                 .design 
                 Enterprise architecture 
                 Form factor 
                 Futures studies 
                 Indie design 
                 Innovation management 
                 Intelligent design 
                 Lean startup 
                 New product development 
                 OODA loop 
                 Philosophy of design 
                 Process simulation 
                 Slow design 
                 STEAM fields 
                 Unintelligent design 
                 Visualization 
                 Wicked problem
                 
                
                 Design brief 
                 change 
                 classic 
                 competition 
                  
                   architectural 
                   student
                   
                 director 
                 education 
                 elements and principles 
                 engineer 
                 firm 
                 history 
                 knowledge 
                 language 
                 life 
                 load 
                 museum 
                 paradigm 
                 rationale 
                 review 
                 specification 
                 studies 
                 studio 
                 technology
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Commons  
              Wikibooks  
              Wikinews  
              Wikiquote  
              Wikisource  
              Wiktionary 
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_interface_design&amp;oldid=1061669646"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Usability
       User interfaces
       Graphic design
       Industrial design
       Information architecture
       Design
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       Македонски
       日本語
       Português
       Simple English
       Српски / srpski
       Türkçe
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 23 December 2021, at 04:10&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
