
 
  
   
  Visual culture - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Visual culture 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       "Visual studies" redirects here. For the academic journal, see Visual Studies (journal).
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Visual culture"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Visual culture is the aspect of culture expressed in visual images. Many academic fields study this subject, including cultural studies, art history, critical theory, philosophy, media studies, Deaf Studies and anthropology. 
      The field of visual culture studies in the United States corresponds or parallels the Bildwissenschaft ("image studies") in Germany. Both fields are not entirely new, as they can be considered reformulations of issues of photography and film theory that had been raised from the 1920s and 1930s by authors like Béla Balázs, László Moholy-Nagy, Siegfried Kracauer and Walter Benjamin.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 Pictorial Turn 
        3 Visualism 
        4 Relationship with other areas of study 
          
          4.1 Art history 
          4.2 Performance studies 
          4.3 Image studies 
          4.4 Bildwissenschaft 
           
        5 History 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        9 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      Among theorists working within contemporary culture, this field of study often overlaps with film studies, psychoanalytic theory, sex studies, queer theory, and the study of television; it can also include video game studies, comics, traditional artistic media, advertising, the Internet, and any other medium that has a crucial visual component. 
      The field's versatility stems from the range of objects contained under the term "visual culture", which aggregates "visual events in which information, meaning or pleasure is sought by the consumer in an interface with visual technology". The term "visual technology" refers any media designed for purposes of perception or with the potential to augment our visual capability. 
      Because of the changing technological aspects of visual culture as well as a scientific method-derived desire to create taxonomies or articulate what the "visual" is, many aspects of Visual Culture overlap with the study of science and technology, including hybrid electronic media, cognitive science, neurology, and image and brain theory. In an interview with the Journal of Visual Culture, academic Martin Jay explicates the rise of this tie between the visual and the technological: "Insofar as we live in a culture whose technological advances abet the production and dissemination of such images at a hitherto unimagined level, it is necessary to focus on how they work and what they do, rather than move past them too quickly to the ideas they represent or the reality they purport to depict. In so doing, we necessarily have to ask questions about ... technological mediations and extensions of visual experience." 
      "Visual Culture" goes by a variety of names at different institutions, including Visual and Critical Studies, Visual and Cultural Studies, and Visual Studies.  
      Pictorial Turn 
      In the development of Visual Studies, WJT Mitchell's text on the "Pictorial Turn" was highly influential. In analogy to the linguistic turn, Mitchell stated that we were undergoing a major paradigm shift in sciences and society which turned images, rather than verbal language, to the paradigmatic vectors of our relationship to the world. Gottfried Boehm made similar claims in the German-speaking context, when talking about an "iconic turn"., as did Marshall McLuhan when speaking of television in terms of creating an "intensely visual culture"   
      Visualism 
      The term "Visualism" was developed by the German anthropologist Johannes Fabian to criticise the dominating role of vision in scientific discourse, through such terms as observation. He points to an under theorised approach to the use of visual representation which leads to a corpuscular theory of knowledge and information which leads to their atomisation.  
      Relationship with other areas of study 
      Art history 
      As visual culture studies, in the United States, have begun to address areas previously studied by art history, there have been disputes between the two fields. One of the reason for controversy was that the various approaches in art history, like formalism, iconology, social history of art, or New Art History, focused only on artistic images, assuming a distinction with non-artistic ones, while in visual culture studies there is typically no such distinction.  
      Performance studies 
      Visual culture studies may also overlap with another emerging field, that of performance studies. As "the turn from art history to visual culture studies parallels a turn from theater studies to performance studies", it is clear that the perspectival shift that both emerging fields embody is comparable.  
      Image studies 
      While the image remains a focal point in visual culture studies, it is the relations between images and consumers that are evaluated for their cultural significance, not just the image in and of itself. Martin Jay clarifies, "Although images of all kinds have long served as illustrations of arguments made discursively, the growth of visual culture as a field has allowed them to be examined more in their own terms as complex figural artifacts or the stimulants to visual experiences." 
      Likewise, W. J. T. Mitchell explicitly distinguishes the two fields in his claim that visual culture studies "helps us to see that even something as broad as the image does not exhaust the field of visuality; that visual studies is not the same thing as image studies, and that the study of the visual image is just one component of the larger field."  
      Bildwissenschaft 
      Though the development of Bildwissenschaft ("image-science") in the German-speaking world to an extent paralleled that of the field of visual culture in the United Kingdom and United States, Bildwissenschaft occupies a more central role in the liberal arts and humanities than that afforded to visual culture. Significant differences between Bildwissenschaft and Anglophone cultural and visual studies include the former's examination of images dating from the early modern period, and its emphasis on continuities over breaks with the past. Whereas Anglo-American visual studies can be seen as a continuation of critical theory in its attempt to reveal power relations, Bildwissenschaft is not explicitly political. WJT Mitchell and Gottfried Boehm have had a discussion about these potential differences in an exchange of letters   
      History 
      Early work on visual culture has been done by John Berger (Ways of Seeing, 1972) and Laura Mulvey (Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema, 1975) that follows on from Jacques Lacan's theorization of the unconscious gaze. Twentieth-century pioneers such as György Kepes and William Ivins, Jr. as well as iconic phenomenologists like Maurice Merleau-Ponty also played important roles in creating a foundation for the discipline. For the history of art, Svetlana Alpers published a pioneering study on The Art of Describing: Dutch Art in the Seventeenth Century (Chicago 1983) in which she took up an earlier impulse of Michael Baxandall to study the visual culture of a whole region of early-modern Europe in all its facets: landscape painting and perception, optics and perspectival studies, geography and topographic measurements, united in a common mapping impulse. 
      Major works on visual culture include those by W. J. T. Mitchell, Griselda Pollock, Giuliana Bruno, Stuart Hall, Roland Barthes, Jean-François Lyotard, Rosalind Krauss, Paul Crowther and Slavoj Žižek. Continuing work has been done by Lisa Cartwright, Marita Sturken, Margaret Dikovitskaya, Nicholas Mirzoeff, Irit Rogoff and Jackie Stacey. The first book titled Visual Culture (Vizuális Kultúra) was written by Pál Miklós in 1976. For history of science and technology, Klaus Hentschel has published a systematic comparative history in which various patterns of their emergence, stabilization and diffusion are identified. 
      In the German-speaking world, analogous discussions about "Bildwissenschaft" (image studies) are conducted, a.o., by Gottfried Boehm, Hans Belting, and Horst Bredekamp. In the French-speaking world, the visual culture and the visual studies have been recently discussed, a.o., by Maxime Boidy, André Gunthert, Gil Bartholeyns. 
      Visual culture studies have been increasingly important in religious studies through the work of David Morgan, Sally Promey, Jeffrey F. Hamburger, and S. Brent Plate.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Art education 
        Art history 
        Asemic writing 
        Media influence 
        Mediascape 
        Sublime 
        Visual anthropology 
        Visual communication 
        Visual ethics 
        Visual literacy 
        Visual rhetoric 
        Visual sociology
        
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ Bahan, Ben (2014). "Raising the Stakes for Human Diversity". Senses and Culture: Exploring the World Through Sensory Orientations. Minneapolis, Minn: University of Minnesota Press. pp.&nbsp;233–254. ISBN&nbsp;978-0816691227. JSTOR&nbsp;10.5749/j.ctt9qh3m7.  
        ^ a b c d Pinotti, Somaini (2016) Cultura visuale, pp.67-8  
        ^ 
          Mirzoeff, Nicholas (1998). What is Visual Culture?. The Visual Culture Reader (2nd ed.). ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-14134-5. Retrieved 2 November 2011.  
        ^ a b 
          "That Visual Turn" (PDF). Journal of Visual Culture. Retrieved 2 November 2011.  
        ^ W. J. T. Mitchell, "The Pictorial Turn", ArtForum, n° 5, 1992, p. 89-94 ;Gottfried Boehm, "Die Wiederkehr der Bilder", in Boehm (ed.) Was ist ein Bild?, Munich, Fink, 1994m, p. 11-38; Emmanuel Alloa, "Iconic Turn: A Plea for Three Turns of the Screw", Culture, Theory and Critique 57.2 (2016) 228-250  
        ^ Marshall McLuhan, Understanding Media MIT Press (1964) 45  
        ^ 
          Rarey, Matthew (2012). "Visualism". In Elkins, James; McGuire, Kristi; Burns, Maureen; Chester, Alicia; Kuennen, Joel (eds.). Theorizing Visual Studies: Writing Through the Discipline. Routledge. pp.&nbsp;278–281. ISBN&nbsp;9781136159169.  
        ^ 
          Jackson, Shannon. "Performing Show and Tell: Disciplines of Visual Culture and Performance Studies". Retrieved 2 November 2011.  
        ^ Schober, Anna (2003). Blue Jeans. Alterations of a Thing, a Body, a Nation In: Heinz Tschachler, Maureen Devine, Michael Draxlbauer (eds.), The EmBodyment of American Culture, Muenster: LIT Verlag, 2003, 87–100.  
        ^ 
          "Visual Culture/Visual Studies: Inventory of Recent Definitions". Retrieved 2 November 2011.  
        ^ 
          Rampley, Matthew (2012). "Bildwissenschaft: Theories of the Image in German-Language Scholarship". In Rampley, Matthew; Lenain, Thierry; Locher, Hubert; Pinotti, Andrea; Schoell-Glass, Charlotte; Zijlmans, Kitty (eds.). Art History and Visual Studies in Europe: Transnational Discourses and National Frameworks. Brill Publishers. p.&nbsp;121.  
        ^ 
          Craven, David (2014). "The New German Art History: From Ideological Critique and the Warburg Renaissance to the Bildwissenschaft of the Three Bs". Art in Translation. 6 (2): 140. doi:10.2752/175613114X13998876655059.  
        ^ 
          Gaiger, Jason (2014). "The Idea of a Universal Bildwissenschaft". Estetika: The Central European Journal of Aesthetic. LI (2): 212.  
        ^ Gaiger 2014, p.&nbsp;213.  
        ^ Boehm, Gottfried &amp; Mitchell, W.. (2009). Pictorial versus Iconic Turn: Two Letters. Culture, Theory and Critique. 50. 103-121. 10.1080/14735780903240075.  
        ^ 
          Miklós, Pál (1976). Vizuális Kultúra: Elméleti és kritikai tanulmányok a képzőművészet köréből. Magvető. ISBN&nbsp;978-9632702988.  
        ^ See Klaus Hentschel: Visual Cultures in Science and Technology - A Comparative History, Oxford: Oxford Univ. Press 2014.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Alloa, Emmanuel (ed.), Gottfried Boehm, Marie-José Mondzain, Jean-Luc Nancy, Emanuele Coccia, W. J. T. Mitchell, Horst Bredekamp, Georges Didi-Huberman, Hans Belting (2011). Penser l'image (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Dijon: Presses du réel. ISBN&nbsp;978-2840663430.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) 
       Alloa, Emmanuel; Cappelletto, Chiara (eds.), Dynamis of the Image. Moving Images in a Global World, New York: De Gruyter, 2020. 
       
        Bartholeyns, Gil (2018). History of Visual Culture in P. Burke &amp; Marek Tamm, Debating New Approaches to History. London: Bloomsbury. ISBN&nbsp;9781474281928. 
       
        Bartholeyns, Gil, Dierkens, Alain &amp; Golsenne, Thomas (ed.) (2010). La Performance des images (1st&nbsp;ed.). Brussels: Editions de l'université de Bruxelles. ISBN&nbsp;978-2-8004-1474-4. }: |author= has generic name (help)CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) 
       Bartholeyns, Gil (ed.) (2016), Politiques visuelles, Dijon: Presses du réel, with a French translation of the Visual Culture Questionnaire (October 1996) by Isabelle Decobecq. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-2-84066-745-2. 
       Conti, Uliano (2016), Lo spazio del visuale. Manuale sull'utilizzo dell'immagine nella ricerca sociale, Armando, Roma, 
        ISBN&nbsp;8869921409 
       
        Dikovitskaya, Margaret (2005). Visual Culture: The Study of the Visual after the Cultural Turn (1st&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge, Ma: The MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-04224-6. 
       
        Elkins, James (2003). Visual Studies: A Skeptical Introduction. New York: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-96681-8. 
       
        Ewen, Stuart (1988). All Consuming Images: The Politics of Style in Contemporary Culture (1st&nbsp;ed.). New York, NY: Basic Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-465-00101-9. 
       
        Fuery, Kelli &amp; Patrick Fuery (2003). Visual Culture and Critical Theory (1st&nbsp;ed.). London: Arnold Publisher. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-340-80748-4. 
       Oliver Grau: Virtual Art. From Illusion to Immersion. MIT-Press, Cambridge/Mass. 2003. 
       Oliver Grau, Andreas Keil (Hrsg.): Mediale Emotionen. Zur Lenkung von Gefühlen durch Bild und Sound. Fischer, Frankfurt am Main 2005. 
       Oliver Grau (Hrsg.): Imagery in the 21st Century. MIT-Press, Cambridge 2011. 
       Klaus Hentschel: Visual Cultures in Science and Technology - A Comparative History, Oxford, Oxford Univ. Press, 2014. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-871787-4. 
       
        Manghani, Sunil; Jon Simons; Arthur Piper (2006). Images: A Reader. London: Sage. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4129-0045-4. 
       
        Manghani, Sunil (2008). Image Critique. London: Intellect Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84150-190-1. 
       Jay, Martin (ed.), 'The State of Visual Culture Studies', themed issue of Journal of Visual Culture, vol.4, no.2, August 2005, London: Sage. 
        ISSN&nbsp;1470-4129. e
        ISSN&nbsp;1741-2994 
       
        Mirzoeff, Nicholas (1999). An Introduction to Visual Culture. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-15876-3. 
       
        Mirzoeff, Nicholas, ed. (2002). The Visual Culture Reader (2nd&nbsp;ed.). London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-25222-5. 
       
        Michael Ann, Holly &amp; Moxey, Keith (2002). Art History, Aesthetics, Visual Studies (1st&nbsp;ed.). Massachusetts: Clark Art Institute and Yale University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-300-09789-4. 
       
        Morra, Joanne &amp; Smith, Marquard (eds.) (2006). Visual Culture: Critical Concepts in Media and Cultural Studies, 4 vols. London: Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-32641-4. }: |author= has generic name (help)CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) 
       Plate, S. Brent, Religion, Art, and Visual Culture. (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2002) 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-312-24029-5 
       Smith, Marquard, 'Visual Culture Studies: Questions of History, Theory, and Practice' in Jones, Amelia (ed.) A Companion to Contemporary Art Since 1945, Oxford: Blackwell, 2006. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4051-3542-9 
       Yoshida,Yukihiko, Leni Riefenstahl and German Expressionism: A Study of Visual Cultural Studies Using Transdisciplinary Semantic Space of Specialized Dictionaries, Technoetic Arts: a journal of speculative research (Editor Roy Ascott),Volume 8, Issue3,intellect,2008 
       
        Sturken, Marita; Lisa Cartwright (2007). Practices of Looking: An Introduction to Visual Culture (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-531440-3.
       
      External links 
      
       Journal of Visual Culture | Publisher's Website 
       Visual Studies journal 
       Culture Visuelle social media 
       viz.: Rhetoric, Visual Culture, Pedagogy 
       William Blake and Visual Culture: A Special Issue of the Journal Imagetext 
       Material collection from Introduction to Media Theory and Visual Culture, by Professor Martin Irvine 
       Visual Culture Collective 
       Duke University Visual Studies Initiative 
       Visual Studies @ University of Houston 
       International Visual Sociology Association 
       Visual Studies @ University of California, Irvine 
       Centre for Visual &amp; Cultural Studies, Edinburgh College of Art, Scotland 
       Visual Studies @ University of California, Santa Cruz 
       Interfaces: Studies in Visual Culture book series 
       Contemporary International Visual Culture 
       Visual Culture and Communication @ Zurich University of the Arts 
       Sciences et Cultures du Visuel @ University of Lille | Master SCV
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Culture
           
         
         
          
           
             Outline
           
         
         
          Sciences
          
            
            
             Cultural anthropology 
             Cultural astronomy 
             Cultural ecology 
             Cultural geography 
             Cultural neuroscience 
             Cultural studies 
             Culturology 
             Culture theory 
             Security culture 
             Neuroculture
             
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Bioculture 
             Cross-cultural studies 
              
               Cross-cultural communication 
               Cross-cultural leadership 
               Cross-cultural psychiatry 
               Cross-cultural psychology
               
             Cultural analytics 
             Cultural economics 
             Cultural entomology 
             Cultural history 
             Cultural mapping 
             Cultural mediation 
             Cultural psychology 
             Cultural values 
             Culturomics 
             Intercultural learning 
             Intercultural relations 
             Internet culture 
             Philosophy of culture 
             Popular culture studies 
             Postcritique 
             Semiotics of culture 
             Sociology of culture 
             Sound culture 
             Theology of culture 
             Transcultural nursing
             
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Constructed culture 
             Dominant culture 
             Folk culture 
             High culture 
             Individualistic culture 
             Legal culture 
             Low culture 
             Microculture 
             Official culture 
             Political culture 
              
               Civic
               
             Popular culture 
              
               Urban
               
             Primitive culture 
             Subculture 
              
               Alternative culture 
               list
               
             Super culture 
             Vernacular culture 
             Culture by location
             
           
         
         
          Aspects
          
            
            
             Acculturation 
             Cultural appreciation 
             Cultural appropriation 
             Cultural area 
             Cultural artifact 
             Cultural baggage 
             Cultural behavior 
             Cultural bias 
             Cultural capital 
              
               Cross-cultural
               
             Cultural communication 
             Cultural conflict 
             Cultural cringe 
             Cultural dissonance 
             Cultural emphasis 
             Cultural framework 
             Cultural heritage 
             Cultural icon 
             Cultural identity 
             Cultural industry 
             Cultural invention 
             Cultural landscape 
             Cultural learning 
             Cultural leveling 
             Cultural memory 
             Cultural pluralism 
             Cultural practice 
             Cultural property 
             Cultural reproduction 
             Cultural system 
             Cultural technology 
             Cultural universal 
             Cultureme 
             Enculturation 
             High- and low-context cultures 
             Interculturality 
             Manuscript culture 
             Material culture 
             Non-material culture 
             Organizational culture 
             Print culture 
             Protoculture 
             Relational mobility 
             Safety culture 
             Technoculture 
             Trans-cultural diffusion 
             Transculturation 
             Visual culture
             
           
         
         
          Politics
          
            
            
             Colonial mentality 
             Consumer capitalism 
             Cross cultural sensitivity 
             Cultural assimilation 
             Cultural attaché 
             Cultural backwardness 
             Cultural Bolshevism 
             Cultural conservatism 
             Cultural contracts 
             Cultural deprivation 
             Cultural diplomacy 
             Cultural environmentalism 
             Cultural exception 
             Cultural feminism 
             Cultural genocide 
             Cultural globalization 
             Cultural hegemony 
             Cultural imperialism 
             Cultural intelligence 
             Cultural liberalism 
             Cultural nationalism 
             Cultural pessimism 
             Cultural policy 
             Cultural racism 
             Cultural radicalism 
             Cultural retention 
             Cultural Revolution 
             Cultural rights 
             Cultural safety 
             Cultural silence 
             Cultural subsidy 
             Cultural Zionism 
             Culture change 
             Culture minister 
             Culture of fear 
             Culture war 
             Deculturalization 
             Dominator culture 
             Interculturalism 
             Monoculturalism 
             Multiculturalism 
              
               Biculturalism
               
             Pluriculturalism 
             Polyculturalism 
             Transculturism
             
           
         
         
          Religions
          
            
            
             Buddhism 
             Christianity 
              
               Catholicism 
               Cultural Christians 
               Protestantism 
               Role of Christianity in civilization 
               Eastern Orthodoxy 
               Mormonism
               
             Cultural Hindus 
             Islam 
              
               Cultural Muslims
               
             Judaism 
             Sikhism
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Animal culture 
             Archaeological culture 
             Bennett scale 
             Cannabis culture 
             Circuit of culture 
             Civilization 
             Coffee culture 
             Cross-cultural 
             Cultural center 
             Cultural competence 
             Cultural critic 
             Cultural determinism 
             Cultural diversity 
             Cultural evolutionism 
             Cultural homogenization 
             Cultural institution 
             Cultural jet lag 
             Cultural lag 
             Cultural literacy 
             Cultural mosaic 
             Cultural movement 
             Cultural mulatto 
             Cultural probe 
             Cultural relativism 
             Culture speculation 
             Cultural tourism 
              
               Pop-culture
               
             Cultural translation 
             Cultural turn 
             Cultural sensibility 
             Culture and menstruation 
             Culture and positive psychology 
             Culture and social cognition 
             Culture gap 
             Culture hero 
             Culture industry 
             Culture shock 
             Culturgen 
             Children's culture 
             Culturalism 
             Cyberculture 
             Death and culture 
             Disability culture 
              
               Deaf culture
               
             Emotions and culture 
             Intercultural communication 
             Intercultural competence 
             Languaculture 
             Living things in culture 
             Media culture 
             Oppositional culture 
             Participatory culture 
             Permission culture 
             Rape culture 
             Remix culture 
             Tea culture 
             Transformation of culture 
             Urban culture 
             Welfare culture 
             Western culture 
             Youth culture
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
              WikiProject 
             Changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Visual_culture&amp;oldid=1067917913"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Cultural studies
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from April 2011
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from January 2012
       Articles with unsourced statements from June 2020
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1 errors: generic name
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Dansk
       Español
       فارسی
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenščina
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 January 2022, at 20:31&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
