
 
  
   
  Chart - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Chart 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Graphical representation of data
       
      
      
       For other uses, see Chart (disambiguation), Graph (disambiguation), and Diagram.
       
      
      
       For information about charts in Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Graphs and charts.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A pie chart showing the composition of the 38th Parliament of Canada.
        
       
       
      A chart is a graphical representation for data visualization, in which "the data is represented by symbols, such as bars in a bar chart, lines in a line chart, or slices in a pie chart". A chart can represent tabular numeric data, functions or some kinds of quality structure and provides different info. 
      The term "chart" as a graphical representation of data has multiple meanings:  
      
       A data chart is a type of diagram or graph, that organizes and represents a set of numerical or qualitative data. 
       Maps that are adorned with extra information (map surround) for a specific purpose are often known as charts, such as a nautical chart or aeronautical chart, typically spread over several map sheets. 
       Other domain-specific constructs are sometimes called charts, such as the chord chart in music notation or a record chart for album popularity.
       
      Charts are often used to ease understanding of large quantities of data and the relationships between parts of the data. Charts can usually be read more quickly than the raw data. They are used in a wide variety of fields, and can be created by hand (often on graph paper) or by computer using a charting application. Certain types of charts are more useful for presenting a given data set than others. For example, data that presents percentages in different groups (such as "satisfied, not satisfied, unsure") are often displayed in a pie chart, but maybe more easily understood when presented in a horizontal bar chart. On the other hand, data that represents numbers that change over a period of time (such as "annual revenue from 1990 to 2000") might be best shown as a line chart.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Features 
        2 Types 
          
          2.1 Common charts 
          2.2 Less-common charts 
          2.3 Field-specific charts 
          2.4 Well-known named charts 
          2.5 Other charts 
          2.6 Common plots 
           
        3 Chart software 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        
       
      Features 
      A chart can take a large variety of forms. However, there are common features that provide the chart with its ability to extract meaning from data. 
      Typically the data in a chart is represented graphically since humans can infer meaning from pictures more quickly than from text. Thus, the text is generally used only to annotate the data. 
      One of the most important uses of text in a graph is the title. A graph's title usually appears above the main graphic and provides a succinct description of what the data in the graph refers to. 
      Dimensions in the data are often displayed on axes. If a horizontal and a vertical axis are used, they are usually referred to as the x-axis and y-axis. Each axis will have a scale, denoted by periodic graduations and usually accompanied by numerical or categorical indications. Each axis will typically also have a label displayed outside or beside it, briefly describing the dimension represented. If the scale is numerical, the label will often be suffixed with the unit of that scale in parentheses. For example, "Distance traveled (m)" is a typical x-axis label and would mean that the distance traveled, in units of meters, is related to the horizontal position of the data within the chart. 
      Within the graph, a grid of lines may appear to aid in the visual alignment of data. The grid can be enhanced by visually emphasizing the lines at regular or significant graduations. The emphasized lines are then called major gridlines, and the remainder is minor grid lines. 
      A chart's data can appear in all manner of formats and may include individual textual labels describing the datum associated with the indicated position in the chart. The data may appear as dots or shapes, connected or unconnected, and in any combination of colors and patterns. In addition, inferences or points of interest can be overlaid directly on the graph to further aid information extraction. 
      When the data appearing in a chart contains multiple variables, the chart may include a legend (also known as a key). A legend contains a list of the variables appearing in the chart and an example of their appearance. This information allows the data from each variable to be identified in the chart.  
      Types 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article's factual accuracy is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced. (October 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       See also: Commons:Category:Charts by type
       
      Common charts 
      Four of the most common charts are:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Histogram  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Bar chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Pie chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Line chart  
          
         
       
      This gallery shows:  
      
       A histogram consists of tabular frequencies, shown as adjacent rectangles, erected over discrete intervals (bins), with an area equal to the frequency of the observations in the interval; first introduced by Karl Pearson. 
       A bar chart is a chart with rectangular bars with lengths proportional to the values that they represent. The bars can be plotted vertically or horizontally. The first known bar charts are usually attributed to Nicole Oresme, Joseph Priestley, and William Playfair. 
       A pie chart shows percentage values as a slice of a pie; first introduced by William Playfair. 
       A line chart is a two-dimensional scatterplot of ordered observations where the observations are connected following their order. The first known line charts are usually credited to Francis Hauksbee, Nicolaus Samuel Cruquius, Johann Heinrich Lambert and William Playfair.
       
      Other common charts are:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Timeline chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Organizational chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Tree chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Flow chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Area chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Cartogram  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Pedigree chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Sunburst Chart  
          
         
       
      Less-common charts 
      Examples of less common charts are:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Bubble chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Polar area diagram  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Waterfall chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Radar chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Tree map  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Streamgraph  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          GapChart  
          
         
       
      This gallery shows:  
      
       A bubble chart is a two-dimensional scatterplot where a third variable is represented by the size of the points. 
       A polar area diagram, sometimes called a Coxcomb chart, is an enhanced form of pie chart developed by Florence Nightingale. 
       A radar chart or "spider chart" or "doi" is a two-dimensional chart of three or more quantitative variables represented on axes starting from the same point. 
       A waterfall chart also known as a "Walk" chart, is a special type of floating-column chart. 
       A tree map where the areas of the rectangles correspond to values. Other dimensions can be represented with color or hue. Smaller areas go to the bottom right corner. 
       A streamgraph, a stacked, curvilinear area graph displaced around a central axis 
       A GapChart, a time series chart showing evolving gaps and equalities between series. Other dimensions can be represented with color or hue.
       
      Field-specific charts 
      Some types of charts have specific uses in a certain field  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Open-high-low-close chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Candlestick chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Kagi chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Sparkline  
          
         
       
      This gallery shows:  
      
       Stock market prices are often depicted with an open-high-low-close chart with a traditional bar chart of volume at the bottom. 
       Candlestick charts are another type of bar chart used to describe price movements of an equity over time. 
       A Kagi chart is a time-independent stock tracking chart that attempts to minimise noise. 
       Alternatively, where less detail is required, and chart size is paramount, a Sparkline may be used.
       
      Other examples:  
      
       Interest rates, temperatures, etc., at the close of the period are plotted with a line chart. 
       Project planners use a Gantt chart to show the timing of tasks as they occur over time.
       
      Well-known named charts 
      Some of the better-known named charts are:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Gantt chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Nolan chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          PERT chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Smith chart  
          
         
       
      Some specific charts have become well known by effectively explaining a phenomenon or idea.  
      
       An Allele chart is a chart originating from the study of genetics to show the interaction of two data points in a grid. 
       A Gantt chart helps in scheduling complex projects. 
       The Nolan chart and the Pournelle chart classify political philosophies according to two axes of variation. 
       A PERT chart is often used in project management. 
       The Smith chart serves in radio electronics.
       
      Other charts 
      There are dozens of other types of charts. Here are some of them:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Control chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Greninger chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Heatmap  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Natal chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Nomogram  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Pareto chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Run chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Strip chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Structure chart  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Vowel chart  
          
         
       
      One more example: Bernal chart  
      Common plots 
      
      
       Main article: Plot (graphics)
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Box plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Dot plot (statistics)  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Probability plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Scatterplot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Biplot  
          
         
       
      Chart software 
      While charts can be drawn by hand, computer software is often used to automatically produce a chart based on entered data. For examples of commonly used software tools, see List of charting software.  
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chart.
         
       
       
      
       Comparison of Adobe Flex charts 
       Diagram 
       Table (information) 
       Drakon-chart 
       Exploratory data analysis 
       Graphic organizer 
       Information graphics 
       Mathematical diagram 
       Official statistics 
       Plot (graphics) 
       Edward Tufte 
       Misleading graph
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Cary Jensen, Loy Anderson (1992). Harvard graphics 3: the complete reference. Osborne McGraw-Hill ISBN&nbsp;0-07-881749-8 p.413  
         ^ Howard Wainer (1997) 'Visual revelations: graphical tales of fate and Deception from Napoleon Bonaparte to Ross Perot, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. 
            ISBN&nbsp;0-8058-3878-3 p.87-90  
         ^ 
           Pearson, K. (1895). "Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Evolution. II. Skew Variation in Homogeneous Material". Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences. 186: 343–414. Bibcode:1895RSPTA.186..343P. doi:10.1098/rsta.1895.0010.  
         ^ 
           "First Ever Bar Charts Created in 14th Century". AnyChart. Retrieved 9 February 2016.  
         ^ 
           "History of Pie Charts". JPowered. Archived from the original on 15 January 2016. Retrieved 9 February 2016.  
         ^ 
           Michael Friendly (2008). "Milestones in the history of thematic cartography, statistical graphics, and data visualization" (PDF). pp.&nbsp;13–14.  
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Chart"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (October 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Further reading 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Chart
         
       
       
      
       Brinton, Willard Cope. Graphic methods for presenting facts. The Engineering magazine company, 1914. 
       Karsten, Karl G. Charts and graphs: An introduction to graphic methods in the control and analysis of statistics. Prentice-Hall, 1923, 1925.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chart&amp;oldid=1059298505"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Infographics
       Diagrams
       Charts
       Modeling languages
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Accuracy disputes from October 2019
       All accuracy disputes
       Commons link is on Wikidata
       Articles needing additional references from October 2011
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Avañe'ẽ
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Català
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Eesti
       Español
       Euskara
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Kiswahili
       Bahasa Melayu
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 December 2021, at 17:15&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
