
 
  
   
  Photograph - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Photograph 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Image created by light falling on a light-sensitive surface
       
      
      
       "Photos" redirects here. For the Apple application, see Apple Photos. For the Microsoft application, see Microsoft Photos. For other uses, see Photograph (disambiguation).
       
      
      
       For the technique, see Photography.
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The earliest known surviving product of Nicéphore Niépce's heliography process, 1825. It is an ink on paper print and reproduces a 17th-century Flemish engraving showing a man leading a horse.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         View from the Window at Le Gras (1826 or 1827), by Nicéphore Niépce, the earliest known surviving photograph of a real-world scene, made with a camera obscura. Original (left) and colorized reoriented enhancement (right).
        
       
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A modern-day photograph of an Icelandic landscape, captured on a personal camera
        
       
       
      A photograph (also known as a photo, image, or picture) is an image created by light falling on a photosensitive surface, usually photographic film or an electronic image sensor, such as a CCD or a CMOS chip. Most photographs are now created using a smartphone/camera, which uses a lens to focus the scene's visible wavelengths of light into a reproduction of what the human eye would see. The process and practice of creating such images is called photography.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Etymology 
        2 History 
        3 Types of photographs 
        4 Preservation 
          
          4.1 Paper folders 
          4.2 Polyester enclosures 
          4.3 Handling and care 
           
        5 Myths and beliefs 
        6 Legality 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 External links 
        
       
      Etymology 
      The word photograph was coined in 1839 by Sir John Herschel and is based on the Greek φῶς (phos), meaning "light," and γραφή (graphê), meaning "drawing, writing," together meaning "drawing with light."  
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of photography
       
      The first permanent photograph, a contact-exposed copy of an engraving, was made in 1822 using the bitumen-based "heliography" process developed by Nicéphore Niépce. The first photographs of a real-world scene, made using a camera obscura, followed a few years later at Le Gras, France, in 1826, but Niépce's process was not sensitive enough to be practical for that application: a camera exposure lasting for hours or days was required. In 1829 Niépce entered into a partnership with Louis Daguerre and the two collaborated to work out a similar but more sensitive and otherwise improved process.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         View from the Window at Le Gras, Joseph Nicéphore Niépce
        
       
       
      After Niépce's death in 1833 Daguerre concentrated on silver halide-based alternatives. He exposed a silver-plated copper sheet to iodine vapor, creating a layer of light-sensitive silver iodide; exposed it in the camera for a few minutes; developed the resulting invisible latent image to visibility with mercury fumes; then bathed the plate in a hot salt solution to remove the remaining silver iodide, making the results light-fast. He named this first practical process for making photographs with a camera the daguerreotype, after himself. Its existence was announced to the world on 7 January 1839 but working details were not made public until 19 August. Other inventors soon made improvements which reduced the required exposure time from a few minutes to a few seconds, making portrait photography truly practical and widely popular. 
      The daguerreotype had shortcomings, notably the fragility of the mirror-like image surface and the particular viewing conditions required to see the image properly. Each was a unique opaque positive that could only be duplicated by copying it with a camera. Inventors set about working out improved processes that would be more practical. By the end of the 1850s the daguerreotype had been replaced by the less expensive and more easily viewed ambrotype and tintype, which made use of the recently introduced collodion process. Glass plate collodion negatives used to make prints on albumen paper soon became the preferred photographic method and held that position for many years, even after the introduction of the more convenient gelatin process in 1871. Refinements of the gelatin process have remained the primary black-and-white photographic process to this day, differing primarily in the sensitivity of the emulsion and the support material used, which was originally glass, then a variety of flexible plastic films, along with various types of paper for the final prints.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Market Square of Helsinki, in the 1890s
        
       
       
      Color photography is almost as old as black-and-white, with early experiments including John Herschel's Anthotype prints in 1842, the pioneering work of Louis Ducos du Hauron in the 1860s, and the Lippmann process unveiled in 1891, but for many years color photography remained little more than a laboratory curiosity. It first became a widespread commercial reality with the introduction of Autochrome plates in 1907, but the plates were very expensive and not suitable for casual snapshot-taking with hand-held cameras. The mid-1930s saw the introduction of Kodachrome and Agfacolor Neu, the first easy-to-use color films of the modern multi-layer chromogenic type. These early processes produced transparencies for use in slide projectors and viewing devices, but color prints became increasingly popular after the introduction of chromogenic color print paper in the 1940s. The needs of the motion picture industry generated a number of special processes and systems, perhaps the best-known being the now-obsolete three-strip Technicolor process.  
      Types of photographs 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Long-exposure photograph of the Very Large Telescope
        
       
       
      Non-digital photographs are produced with a two-step chemical process. In the two-step process the light-sensitive film captures a negative image (colors and lights/darks are inverted). To produce a positive image, the negative is most commonly transferred ('printed') onto photographic paper. Printing the negative onto transparent film stock is used to manufacture motion picture films. 
      Alternatively, the film is processed to invert the negative image, yielding positive transparencies. Such positive images are usually mounted in frames, called slides. Before recent advances in digital photography, transparencies were widely used by professionals because of their sharpness and accuracy of color rendition. Most photographs published in magazines were taken on color transparency film. 
      Originally, all photographs were monochromatic or hand-painted in color. Although methods for developing color photos were available as early as 1861, they did not become widely available until the 1940s or 1950s, and even so, until the 1960s most photographs were taken in black and white. Since then, color photography has dominated popular photography, although black and white is still used, being easier to develop than color. 
      Panoramic format images can be taken with cameras like the Hasselblad Xpan on standard film. Since the 1990s, panoramic photos have been available on the Advanced Photo System (APS) film. APS was developed by several of the major film manufacturers to provide a film with different formats and computerized options available, though APS panoramas were created using a mask in panorama-capable cameras, far less desirable than a true panoramic camera, which achieves its effect through a wider film format. APS has become less popular and has been discontinued. 
      The advent of the microcomputer and digital photography has led to the rise of digital prints. These prints are created from stored graphic formats such as JPEG, TIFF, and RAW. The types of printers used include inkjet printers, dye-sublimation printer, laser printers, and thermal printers. Inkjet prints are sometimes given the coined name "Giclée". 
      The Web has been a popular medium for storing and sharing photos ever since the first photograph was published on the web by Tim Berners-Lee in 1992 (an image of the CERN house band Les Horribles Cernettes). Today popular sites such as Flickr, PhotoBucket and 500px are used by millions of people to share their pictures.  
      Preservation 
      Paper folders 
      Ideal photograph storage involves placing each photo in an individual folder constructed from buffered, or acid-free paper. Buffered paper folders are especially recommended in cases when a photograph was previously mounted onto poor quality material or using an adhesive that will lead to even more acid creation. Store photographs measuring 8x10 inches or smaller vertically along the longer edge of the photo in the buffered paper folder, within a larger archival box, and label each folder with relevant information to identify it. The rigid nature of the folder protects the photo from slumping or creasing, as long as the box is not packed too tightly or under filled. Folder larger photos or brittle photos stacked flat within archival boxes with other materials of comparable size.  
      Polyester enclosures 
      The most stable of plastics used in photo preservation, polyester, does not generate any harmful chemical elements, nor does it have any capability to absorb acids generated by the photograph itself. Polyester sleeves and encapsulation have been praised for their ability to protect the photograph from humidity and environmental pollution, slowing the reaction between the item and the atmosphere. This is true, however the polyester just as frequently traps these elements next to the material it is intended to protect. This is especially risky in a storage environment that experiences drastic fluctuations in humidity or temperature, leading to ferrotyping, or sticking of the photograph to the plastic. Photographs sleeved or encapsulated in polyester cannot be stored vertically in boxes because they will slide down next to each other within the box, bending and folding, nor can the archivist write directly onto the polyester to identify the photograph. Therefore, it is necessary to either stack polyester protected photographs horizontally within a box, or bind them in a three ring binder. Stacking the photos horizontally within a flat box will greatly reduce ease of access, and binders leave three sides of the photo exposed to the effects of light and do not support the photograph evenly on both sides, leading to slumping and bending within the binder. The plastic used for enclosures has been manufactured to be as frictionless as possible to prevent scratching photos during insertion to the sleeves. Unfortunately, the slippery nature of the enclosure generates a build-up of static electricity, which attracts dust and lint particles. The static can attract the dust to the inside of the sleeve, as well, where it can scratch the photograph. Likewise, these components that aid in insertion of the photo, referred to as slip agents, can break down and transfer from the plastic to the photograph, where they deposit as an oily film, attracting further lint and dust. At this time, there is no test to evaluate the long-term effects of these components on photographs. In addition, the plastic sleeves can develop kinks or creases in the surface, which will scratch away at the emulsion during handling.  
      Handling and care 
      It is best to leave photographs lying flat on the table when viewing them. Do not pick it up from a corner, or even from two sides and hold it at eye level. Every time the photograph bends, even a little, this can break down the emulsion. The very nature of enclosing a photograph in plastic encourages users to pick it up; users tend to handle plastic enclosed photographs less gently than non-enclosed photographs, simply because they feel the plastic enclosure makes the photo impervious to all mishandling. As long as a photo is in its folder, there is no need to touch it; simply remove the folder from the box, lay it flat on the table, and open the folder. If for some reason the researcher or archivist does need to handle the actual photo, perhaps to examine the verso for writing, he or she can use gloves if there appears to be a risk from oils or dirt on the hands.  
      Myths and beliefs 
      
      
       See also: Aniconism
       
      Because daguerreotypes were rendered on a mirrored surface, many spiritualists also became practitioners of the new art form. Spiritualists would claim that the human image on the mirrored surface was akin to looking into one's soul. The spiritualists also believed that it would open their souls and let demons in. Among Muslims, it is makruh (disliked) to perform salah (worship) in a place decorated with photographs. Photography and darkroom anomalies and artifacts sometimes lead viewers to believe that spirits or demons have been captured in photos.  
      Legality 
      
      
       Main article: Photography and the law
       
      The production or distribution of certain types of photograph has been forbidden under modern laws, such as those of government buildings, highly classified regions, private property, copyrighted works, children's genitalia, child pornography and less commonly pornography overall. These laws vary greatly between jurisdictions.  
      See also 
      
       Aerial photography 
       Archival science 
       Cinematographer 
       Conservation and restoration of photographs 
       Hand-colouring of photographs 
       List of largest photographs 
       List of most expensive photographs 
       Pseudo-photograph 
       Slide show
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Online Etymology Dictionary". Retrieved 16 January 2017.  
         ^ 
           "The First Photograph - Heliography". Archived from the original on 6 October 2009. Retrieved 29 September 2009. from Helmut Gernsheim's article, "The 150th Anniversary of Photography," in History of Photography Vol. I, No. 1, January 1977: ... In 1822, Niépce coated a glass plate ... The sunlight passing through ... This first permanent example ... was destroyed ... some years later.  
         ^ 
           "A Stream of Stars over Paranal". ESO Picture of the Week. Retrieved 27 May 2014.  
         ^ a b c 
           "5.6 Storage Enclosures for Photographic Materials". Retrieved 16 January 2017.  
         ^ Norris, Debbie Hess. "Caring for Your Photographic Collections." Library of Congress. 9 Feb. 2008, LOC.gov  
         ^ "How Should I Store my Photographic Prints?" Preservation and Archives Professionals. The National Archives and Records Administration. 9 February 2008, Archives.gov  
         ^ a b International Organization for Standardization. ISO 18902:2001(E). Geneva, Switzerland: ISO Office, 2007.  
         ^ Baggett, James L. "Handle with Care: Photos." Alabama Librarian. 54.1 (2004): 5.  
         ^ 
           Rizvi, Sayyid. Your Questions Answered. p.&nbsp;32.  
         ^ 
           "Photos That AREN'T Paranormal". thoughtco.com.  
         ^ 
           "Hong Kong e-Legislation". Government of Hong Kong. Retrieved 20 September 2017.  
         ^ Masco, Joseph. ""Sensitive but Unclassified": Secrecy and the Counterterrorist State." Public Culture 22.3 (2010): 433-463.  
         ^ 
           Deazley, Ronan (2010). "Photography, copyright, and the South Kensington experiment". Intellectual Property Quarterly. 3: 293–311.  
         ^ Turnbull, Bruce H. "Important legal developments regarding protection of copyrighted content against unauthorized copying." IEEE Communications Magazine 39.8 (2001): 92-100.  
         ^ Slane, Andrea. "From scanning to sexting: The scope of protection of dignity-based privacy in Canadian child pornography law." Osgoode Hall Law Journal 48 (2010): 543.  
         ^ 
           Taylor, Max; Quayle, Ethel; Holland, Gemma (2001). "Child pornography, the Internet and offending". ISUMA - the Canadian Journal of Policy Research. 2 (2): 94–100.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Photographs at Wikimedia Commons 
        The dictionary definition of photograph at Wiktionary
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Photography
           
         
         
          Equipment
          
            
            
             Camera 
              
               light-field 
               digital 
               field 
               instant 
               pinhole 
               press 
               rangefinder 
               SLR 
               still 
               TLR 
               toy 
               view
               
             Darkroom 
              
               enlarger 
               safelight
               
             Film 
              
               base 
               format 
               holder 
               stock 
               available films 
               discontinued films
               
             Filter 
             Flash 
              
               beauty dish 
               cucoloris 
               gobo 
               hot shoe 
               lens hood 
               monolight 
               Reflector 
               snoot 
               Softbox
               
             Lens 
              
               Prime lens 
               Zoom lens 
               Wide-angle lens 
               Telephoto lens
               
             Manufacturers 
             Monopod 
             Movie projector 
             Slide projector 
             Tripod 
              
               head
               
             Zone plate
             
           
         
         
          Terminology
          
            
            
             35 mm equivalent focal length 
             Angle of view 
             Aperture 
             Backscatter 
             Black and white 
             Chromatic aberration 
             Circle of confusion 
             Color balance 
             Color temperature 
             Depth of field 
             Depth of focus 
             Exposure 
             Exposure compensation 
             Exposure value 
             Zebra patterning 
             F-number 
             Film format 
              
               Large 
               Medium
               
             Film speed 
             Focal length 
             Guide number 
             Hyperfocal distance 
             Lens flare 
             Metering mode 
             Perspective distortion 
             Photograph 
             Photographic printing 
             Photographic processes 
             Reciprocity 
             Red-eye effect 
             Science of photography 
             Shutter speed 
             Sync 
             Zone System
             
           
         
         
          Genres
          
            
            
             Abstract 
             Aerial 
             Aircraft 
             Architectural 
             Astrophotography 
             Banquet 
             Conceptual 
             Conservation 
             Cloudscape 
             Documentary 
             Ethnographic 
             Erotic 
             Fashion 
             Fine-art 
             Fire 
             Forensic 
             Glamour 
             High-speed 
             Landscape 
             Nature 
             Neues Sehen 
             Nude 
             Photojournalism 
             Pictorialism 
             Pornography 
             Portrait 
             Post-mortem 
             Selfie 
             Social documentary 
             Sports 
             Still life 
             Stock 
             Straight photography 
             Street 
             Toy camera 
             Underwater 
             Vernacular 
             Wedding 
             Wildlife
             
           
         
         
          Techniques
          
            
            
             Afocal 
             Bokeh 
             Brenizer 
             Burst mode 
             Contre-jour 
             Cyanotype 
             ETTR 
             Fill flash 
             Fireworks 
             Harris shutter 
             High-speed 
             Holography 
             Infrared 
             Intentional camera movement 
             Kirlian 
             Kite aerial 
             Long-exposure 
             Macro 
             Mordançage 
             Multiple exposure 
             Multi-exposure HDR capture 
             Night 
             Panning 
             Panoramic 
             Photogram 
             Print toning 
             Redscale 
             Rephotography 
             Rollout 
             Scanography 
             Schlieren photography 
             Sabattier effect 
             Slow motion 
             Stereoscopy 
             Stopping down 
             Strip 
              
               Slit-scan
               
             Sun printing 
             Tilt–shift 
              
               Miniature faking
               
             Time-lapse 
             Ultraviolet 
             Vignetting 
             Xerography
             
           
         
         
          Composition
          
            
            
             Diagonal method 
             Framing 
             Headroom 
             Lead room 
             Rule of thirds 
             Simplicity 
             Golden triangle (composition)
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             Timeline of photography technology 
             Analog photography 
             Autochrome Lumière 
             Box camera 
             Calotype 
             Camera obscura 
             Daguerreotype 
             Dufaycolor 
             Heliography 
             Painted photography backdrops 
             Photography and the law 
             Glass plate 
             Visual arts
             
           
         
         
          Digital photography
          
            
            
             Digital camera 
              
               D-SLR 
                
                 comparison
                 
               MILC 
               camera back
               
             Digiscoping 
             Comparison of digital and film photography 
             Film scanner 
             Image sensor 
              
               CMOS APS 
               CCD 
               Three-CCD camera 
               Foveon X3 sensor
               
             Image sharing 
             Pixel
             
           
         
         
          Color photography
          
            
            
             Color 
             Print film 
              
               Chromogenic print
               
             Reversal film 
             Color management 
              
               color space 
               primary color 
               CMYK color model 
               RGB color model
              
             
           
         
         
          Photographicprocessing
          
            
            
             Bleach bypass 
             C-41 process 
             Cross processing 
             Developer 
             Digital image processing 
             Dye coupler 
             E-6 process 
             Fixer 
             Gelatin silver process 
             Gum printing 
             Instant film 
             K-14 process 
             Print permanence 
             Push processing 
             Stop bath
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Most expensive photographs 
             Photographs considered the most important 
             Photographers 
              
               Norwegian 
               Polish 
               street 
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Conservation and restoration of photographs 
              
               film 
               photographic plates
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;Category 
             &nbsp;Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Photograph&amp;oldid=1071076900"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Photographs
       Photography
       Visual arts media
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from February 2020
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Български
       Català
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       Hausa
       Հայերեն
       Bahasa Indonesia
       ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitut
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Kiswahili
       Kurdî
       Latina
       Lingua Franca Nova
       Magyar
       Malagasy
       മലയാളം
       Bahasa Melayu
       Minangkabau
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Qırımtatarca
       Sicilianu
       සිංහල
       کوردی
       Sunda
       Suomi
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 18:43&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
