
 
  
   
  Sankey diagram - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Sankey diagram 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Specific type of graphic flow diagram
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article includes a list of general references, but it remains largely unverified because it lacks sufficient corresponding inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Example of a Sankey diagram
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Sankey's original 1898 diagram showing energy efficiency of a steam engine
        
       
       
      Sankey diagrams are a type of flow diagram in which the width of the arrows is proportional to the flow rate. 
      Sankey diagrams can also visualize the energy accounts, material flow accounts on a regional or national level, and cost breakdowns. The diagrams are often used in the visualization of material flow analysis. 
      Sankey diagrams emphasize the major transfers or flows within a system. They help locate the most important contributions to a flow. They often show conserved quantities within defined system boundaries.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Science 
        3 Active examples 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Sankey diagrams are named after Irish Captain Matthew Henry Phineas Riall Sankey, who used this type of diagram in 1898 in a classic figure (see diagram) showing the energy efficiency of a steam engine. The original charts in black and white displayed just one type of flow (e.g. steam); using colors for different types of flows lets the diagram express additional variables. 
      Over time, it became a standard model used in science and engineering to represent heat balance, energy flows, material flows, and since the 1990s this visual model has been used in life-cycle assessment of products.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Minard's classic diagram of Napoleon's invasion of Russia, using the feature now named after Sankey
        
       
       
      One of the most famous Sankey diagrams is Charles Minard's Map of Napoleon's Russian Campaign of 1812. It is a flow map, overlaying a Sankey diagram onto a geographical map. It was created in 1869, predating Sankey's first Sankey diagram of 1898.  
      Science 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Earth's energy budget – line thickness is linearly proportional to relative amount of energy
        
       
       
      Sankey diagrams are often used in fields of science, especially physics. They are used to represent energy inputs, useful output, and wasted output.  
      Active examples 
      The United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) produces numerous Sankey diagrams annually in its Annual Energy Review which illustrate the production and consumption of various forms of energy. 
      The US Department of Energy's Lawrence Livermore Laboratory maintains a site of Sankey diagrams, including US energy flow and carbon flow. 
      Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, has developed an interactive Sankey web tool to visualise energy data by means of flow diagrams. The tool allows the building and customisation of diagrams by playing with different options (country, year, fuel, level of detail). 
      The International Energy Agency (IEA) created an interactive Sankey web application that details the flow of energy for the entire planet. Users can select specific countries, points of time back to 1973, and modify the arrangement of various flows within the Sankey diagram. 
      Ben Schmidt, an assistant professor of history at Northeastern University, created a Sankey diagram relating majors in college to eventual careers.  
      See also 
      
       Alluvial diagram&nbsp;– a type of Sankey diagram that uses the same kind of representation to depict how items re-group 
       Material flow management 
       Thermodynamics 
       Time geography
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Schmidt, Mario (2008). "The Sankey Diagram in Energy and Material Flow Management - Part II: Methodology and Current Applications". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 12 (2): 173–185. doi:10.1111/j.1530-9290.2008.00015.x. ISSN&nbsp;1530-9290.  
         ^ 
           Kennedy, Alex B. W.; Sankey, H. Riall (1898). "The Thermal Efficiency Of Steam Engines". Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers. 134 (1898): 278–312. doi:10.1680/imotp.1898.19100.  
         ^ 
           Schmidt, Mario (2008). "The Sankey Diagram in Energy and Material Flow Management - Part I: History". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 12 (1): 82–94. doi:10.1111/j.1530-9290.2008.00004.x. S2CID&nbsp;154150190.  
         ^ 
           "Annual Energy Review". Energy Information Administration. Retrieved 15 December 2017.  
         ^ 
           "LLNL Flow Charts". Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Retrieved 15 December 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Energy balance flow for European Union (28 countries) 2015". Eurostat. Retrieved 15 December 2017.  
         ^ 
           "World Balance (2015)". International Energy Agency (IEA). Retrieved 15 December 2017.  
         ^ 
           Schmidt, Ben. "What are you going to do with that degree?". Ben Schmidt. Retrieved 15 December 2017.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sankey diagrams.
         
       
       
      
       RAWGraphs online open-source platform allowing the creation of Sankey diagrams 
       Scottish Executive – Energy in Scotland: Supply and Demand 
       Irish Environmental Protection Agency – Material Flow Accounts (MFAs) – Demonstration for Ireland – 2001 
       sankey-diagrams.com – Blog discussing the usage of Sankey diagrams 
       IEA Energy Balance Flows – Containing International Energy Agency's data on over 150 countries and regions 
       Eurostat energy flow diagrams – Interactive visualisation tool for the annual energy balance data of 42 countries reporting to Eurostat 
       Grassmann diagrams (exergy flow, destruction, and loss)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sankey_diagram&amp;oldid=1062562883"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Diagrams
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles lacking in-text citations from July 2015
       All articles lacking in-text citations
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Suomi
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 29 December 2021, at 05:56&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
