
 
  
   
  Plot (graphics) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Plot (graphics) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Scatterplot of the eruption interval for Old Faithful (a geyser)
        
       
       
      A plot is a graphical technique for representing a data set, usually as a graph showing the relationship between two or more variables. The plot can be drawn by hand or by a computer. In the past, sometimes mechanical or electronic plotters were used. Graphs are a visual representation of the relationship between variables, which are very useful for humans who can then quickly derive an understanding which may not have come from lists of values. Given a scale or ruler, graphs can also be used to read off the value of an unknown variable plotted as a function of a known one, but this can also be done with data presented in tabular form. Graphs of functions are used in mathematics, sciences, engineering, technology, finance, and other areas.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 Types of plots 
          
          2.1 Plots for specific quantities 
          2.2 3D plots 
           
        3 Examples 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      Plots play an important role in statistics and data analysis. The procedures here can broadly be split into two parts: quantitative and graphical. Quantitative techniques are the set of statistical procedures that yield numeric or tabular output. Examples of quantitative techniques include:  
      
       hypothesis testing 
       analysis of variance 
       point estimates and confidence intervals 
       least squares regression
       
      These and similar techniques are all valuable and are mainstream in terms of classical analysis. There are also many statistical tools generally referred to as graphical techniques. These include:  
      
       scatter plots 
       spectrum plots 
       histograms 
       probability plots 
       residual plots 
       box plots, and 
       block plots
       
      Graphical procedures such as plots are a short path to gaining insight into a data set in terms of testing assumptions, model selection, model validation, estimator selection, relationship identification, factor effect determination, outlier detection. Statistical graphics give insight into aspects of the underlying structure of the data. 
      Graphs can also be used to solve some mathematical equations, typically by finding where two plots intersect.  
      Types of plots 
      
      
       See also: Commons:Category:Plots by type
       
      
       Biplot&nbsp;: These are a type of graph used in statistics. A biplot allows information on both samples and variables of a data matrix to be displayed graphically. Samples are displayed as points while variables are displayed either as vectors, linear axes or nonlinear trajectories. In the case of categorical variables, category level points may be used to represent the levels of a categorical variable. A generalised biplot displays information on both continuous and categorical variables. 
       Bland–Altman plot&nbsp;: In analytical chemistry and biostatistics this plot is a method of data plotting used in analysing the agreement between two different assays. It is identical to a Tukey mean-difference plot, which is what it is still known as in other fields, but was popularised in medical statistics by Bland and Altman. 
       Bode plots are used in control theory. 
       Box plot&nbsp;: In descriptive statistics, a boxplot, also known as a box-and-whisker diagram or plot, is a convenient way of graphically depicting groups of numerical data through their five-number summaries (the smallest observation, lower quartile (Q1), median (Q2), upper quartile (Q3), and largest observation). A boxplot may also indicate which observations, if any, might be considered outliers. 
       Carpet plot&nbsp;: A two-dimensional plot that illustrates the interaction between two and three independent variables and one to three dependent variables. 
       Comet plot&nbsp;: A two- or three-dimensional animated plot in which the data points are traced on the screen. 
       Contour plot&nbsp;: A two-dimensional plot which shows the one-dimensional curves, called contour lines on which the plotted quantity q is a constant. Optionally, the plotted values can be color-coded. 
       Dalitz plot&nbsp;: This a scatterplot often used in particle physics to represent the relative frequency of various (kinematically distinct) manners in which the products of certain (otherwise similar) three-body decays may move apart
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Biplot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Bland–Altman plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Box plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Carpet plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Phase path of Duffing oscillator plotted as a comet plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Animated marker over a 2D plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Contour plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Logarithmic plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Parallel Category Plot  
          
         
       
      
       Funnel plot&nbsp;: This is a useful graph designed to check the existence of publication bias in meta-analyses. Funnel plots, introduced by Light and Pillemer in 1994 and discussed in detail by Egger and colleagues, are useful adjuncts to meta-analyses. A funnel plot is a scatterplot of treatment effect against a measure of study size. It is used primarily as a visual aid to detecting bias or systematic heterogeneity. 
       Dot plot (statistics)&nbsp;: A dot chart or dot plot is a statistical chart consisting of group of data points plotted on a simple scale. Dot plots are used for continuous, quantitative, univariate data. Data points may be labelled if there are few of them. Dot plots are one of the simplest plots available, and are suitable for small to moderate sized data sets. They are useful for highlighting clusters and gaps, as well as outliers. 
       Forest plot&nbsp;: is a graphical display that shows the strength of the evidence in quantitative scientific studies. It was developed for use in medical research as a means of graphically representing a meta-analysis of the results of randomized controlled trials. In the last twenty years, similar meta-analytical techniques have been applied in observational studies (e.g. environmental epidemiology) and forest plots are often used in presenting the results of such studies also.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Funnel plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Dot plot (statistics)  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Forest plot  
          
         
       
      
       Galbraith plot&nbsp;: In statistics, a Galbraith plot (also known as Galbraith's radial plot or just radial plot), is one way of displaying several estimates of the same quantity that have different standard errors. It can be used to examine heterogeneity in a meta-analysis, as an alternative or supplement to a forest plot. 
       Heat map 
       Nichols plot&nbsp;: This is a graph used in signal processing in which the logarithm of the magnitude is plotted against the phase of a frequency response on orthogonal axes. 
       Normal probability plot&nbsp;: The normal probability plot is a graphical technique for assessing whether or not a data set is approximately normally distributed. The data are plotted against a theoretical normal distribution in such a way that the points should form an approximate straight line. Departures from this straight line indicate departures from normality. The normal probability plot is a special case of the probability plot. 
       Nyquist plot&nbsp;: Plot is used in automatic control and signal processing for assessing the stability of a system with feedback. It is represented by a graph in polar coordinates in which the gain and phase of a frequency response are plotted. The plot of these phasor quantities shows the phase as the angle and the magnitude as the distance from the origin.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Nichols plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Normal probability plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Nyquist plot  
          
         
       
      
       Partial regression plot&nbsp;: In applied statistics, a partial regression plot attempts to show the effect of adding another variable to the model (given that one or more independent variables are already in the model). Partial regression plots are also referred to as added variable plots, adjusted variable plots, and individual coefficient plots. 
       Partial residual plot&nbsp;: In applied statistics, a partial residual plot is a graphical technique that attempts to show the relationship between a given independent variable and the response variable given that other independent variables are also in the model. 
       Probability plot&nbsp;: The probability plot is a graphical technique for assessing whether or not a data set follows a given distribution such as the normal or Weibull, and for visually estimating the location and scale parameters of the chosen distribution. The data are plotted against a theoretical distribution in such a way that the points should form approximately a straight line. Departures from this straight line indicate departures from the specified distribution. 
       Q–Q plot&nbsp;: In statistics, a Q–Q plot (Q stands for quantile) is a graphical method for diagnosing differences between the probability distribution of a statistical population from which a random sample has been taken and a comparison distribution. An example of the kind of differences that can be tested for is non-normality of the population distribution. 
       Recurrence plot&nbsp;: In descriptive statistics and chaos theory, a recurrence plot (RP) is a plot showing, for a given moment in time, the times at which a phase space. In other words, it is a graph of
       
      
       
        
         
          
              
               
                
                 
                  
                   
                   
                    x
                    
                   
                    →
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
                 (
                 
                
                 i
                 
                
                 )
                 
                
                 ≈
                 
                 
                  
                   
                   
                    x
                    
                   
                    →
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
                 (
                 
                
                 j
                 
                
                 )
                 
                
                 ,
                 
                 
                
               
              
               }(i)\approx }(j),\,}
               
              
            
         
        
       
       
      
       
        showing 
            
             
              
              
               i
               
              
             
            
             
             
            
           on a horizontal axis and 
            
             
              
              
               j
               
              
             
            
             
             
            
           on a vertical axis, where 
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                 
                  x
                  
                 
                  →
                  
                 
                
               
              
             
            
             }}
             
            
           is a phase space trajectory.
       
       
      
       Scatterplot&nbsp;: A scatter graph or scatter plot is a type of display using variables for a set of data. The data is displayed as a collection of points, each having the value of one variable determining the position on the horizontal axis and the value of the other variable determining the position on the vertical axis. 
       Shmoo plot&nbsp;: In electrical engineering, a shmoo plot is a graphical display of the response of a component or system varying over a range of conditions and inputs. Often used to represent the results of the testing of complex electronic systems such as computers, ASICs or microprocessors. The plot usually shows the range of conditions in which the device under test will operate. 
       Spaghetti plots are a method of viewing data to visualize possible flows through systems. Flows depicted in this manner appear like noodles, hence the coining of this term. This method of statistics was first used to track routing through factories. Visualizing flow in this manner can reduce inefficiency within the flow of a system.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Weibull probability plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          A normal Q–Q plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Scatterplot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Spaghetti plot  
          
         
       
      
       Stemplot&nbsp;: A stemplot (or stem-and-leaf plot), in statistics, is a device for presenting quantitative data in a graphical format, similar to a histogram, to assist in visualizing the shape of a distribution. They evolved from Arthur Bowley's work in the early 1900s, and are useful tools in exploratory data analysis. Unlike histograms, stemplots retain the original data to at least two significant digits, and put the data in order, thereby easing the move to order-based inference and non-parametric statistics. 
       Star plot&nbsp;: A graphical method of displaying multivariate data. Each star represents a single observation. Typically, star plots are generated in a multi-plot format with many stars on each page and each star representing one observation. 
       Surface plot&nbsp;: In this type of graph, a surface is plotted to fit a set of data triplets (X,Y,Z), where Z if obtained by the function to be plotted Z=f(X,Y). Usually, the set of X and Y values are equally spaced. Optionally, the plotted values can be color-coded.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Star plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Surface plot  
          
         
       
      
       Ternary plot&nbsp;: A ternary plot, ternary graph, triangle plot, simplex plot, or de Finetti diagram is a barycentric plot on three variables which sum to a constant. It graphically depicts the ratios of the three variables as positions in an equilateral triangle. It is used in petrology, mineralogy, metallurgy, and other physical sciences to show the compositions of systems composed of three species. In population genetics, it is often called a de Finetti diagram. In game theory, it is often called a simplex plot. 
       Vector field&nbsp;: Vector field plots (or quiver plots) show the direction and the strength of a vector associated with a 2D or 3D points. They are typically used to show the strength of the gradient over the plane or a surface area. 
       Violin plot&nbsp;: Violin plots are a method of plotting numeric data. They are similar to box plots, except that they also show the probability density of the data at different values (in the simplest case this could be a histogram). Typically violin plots will include a marker for the median of the data and a box indicating the interquartile range, as in standard box plots. Overlaid on this box plot is a kernel density estimation. Violin plots are available as extensions to a number of software packages, including R through the vioplot library, and Stata through the vioplot add-in.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Ternary plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Violin plot  
          
         
       
      Plots for specific quantities 
      
       Arrhenius plot&nbsp;: This plot compares the logarithm of a reaction rate (
            
             
              
              
               ln
               
              
               ⁡
               
              
               (
               
              
               k
               
              
               )
               
              
             
            
             
             
            
          , ordinate axis) plotted against inverse temperature (
            
             
              
              
               1
               
               
               
                /
                
               
              
               T
               
              
             
            
             
             
            
          , abscissa). Arrhenius plots are often used to analyze the effect of temperature on the rates of chemical reactions. 
       Dot plot (bioinformatics)&nbsp;: This plot compares two biological sequences and is a graphical method that allows the identification of regions of close similarity between them. It is a kind of recurrence plot. 
       Lineweaver–Burk plot&nbsp;: This plot compares the reciprocals of reaction rate and substrate concentration. It is used to represent and determine enzyme kinetics.
       
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Arrhenius plot  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          Dot plot (bioinformatics)  
          
         
       
      3D plots 
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          SteamTube plot  
          
         
       
      Examples 
      Types of graphs and their uses vary very widely. A few typical examples are:  
      
       Simple graph: Supply and demand curves, simple graphs used in economics to relate supply and demand to price. The graphs can be used together to determine the economic equilibrium (essentially, to solve an equation). 
       Simple graph used for reading values: the bell-shaped normal or Gaussian probability distribution, from which, for example, the probability of a man's height being in a specified range can be derived, given data for the adult male population. 
       Very complex graph: the psychrometric chart, relating temperature, pressure, humidity, and other quantities. 
       Non-rectangular coordinates: the above all use two-dimensional rectangular coordinates; an example of a graph using polar coordinates, sometimes in three dimensions, is the antenna radiation pattern chart, which represents the power radiated in all directions by an antenna of specified type.
       
      See also 
      
       Chart 
       Diagram 
       Graph of a function 
       Line chart 
       List of graphical methods 
       Plotting software 
       List of plotting programs
       
      References 
      &nbsp;This article incorporates&nbsp;public domain material from the National Institute of Standards and Technology website https://www.nist.gov.  
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c NIST/SEMATECH (2003). "The Role of Graphics". In: e-Handbook of Statistical Methods 6 January 2003 (Date created).  
         ^ Altman DG, Bland JM (1983). "Measurement in medicine: the analysis of method comparison studies". The Statistician. Blackwell Publishing. 32 (3): 307–317. doi:10.2307/2987937. JSTOR&nbsp;2987937.  
         ^ 
           Bland JM, Altman DG (1986). "Statistical methods for assessing agreement between two methods of clinical measurement". Lancet. 1 (8476): 307–10. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(86)90837-8. PMID&nbsp;2868172. S2CID&nbsp;2844897.  
         ^ a b 
           Simionescu, P.A. (2014). Computer Aided Graphing and Simulation Tools for AutoCAD Users (1st&nbsp;ed.). Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4822-5290-3.  
         ^ 
           R. J. Light; D. B. Pillemer (1984). Summing up: The Science of Reviewing Research. Cambridge, Massachusetts.: Harvard University Press.  
         ^ 
           M. Egger, G. Davey Smith, M. Schneider &amp; C. Minder (September 1997). "Bias in meta-analysis detected by a simple, graphical test". BMJ. 315 (7109): 629–634. doi:10.1136/bmj.315.7109.629. PMC&nbsp;2127453. PMID&nbsp;9310563.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^  
           Galbraith, Rex (1988). "Graphical display of estimates having differing standard errors". Technometrics. American Society for Quality. 30 (3): 271–281. doi:10.2307/1270081. JSTOR&nbsp;1270081.  
         ^ Utts, Jessica M. Seeing Through Statistics 3rd Edition, Thomson Brooks/Cole, 2005, pp 166–167. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-534-39402-7  
         ^ 
           Theodore T. Allen (2010). Introduction to Engineering Statistics and Lean Sigma: Statistical Quality Control and Design of Experiments and Systems. Springer. p.&nbsp;128. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-84882-999-2. Retrieved 2011-02-17.  
         ^ 
           Hintze Jerry L.; Nelson Ray D. (1998). "Violin Plots: A Box Plot-Density Trace Synergism". The American Statistician. 52 (2): 181–84. doi:10.1080/00031305.1998.10480559.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Plots.
         
       
       
      
       Dataplot gallery of some useful graphical techniques at itl.nist.gov.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Plot_(graphics)&amp;oldid=1069075226"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Plots (graphics)
       Charts
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the National Institute of Standards and Technology
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Français
       日本語
       Português
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 January 2022, at 14:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
