
 
  
   
  Mathematical diagram - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Mathematical diagram 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Euclid's Elements, ms. from Lüneburg, A.D. 1200
        
       
       
      Mathematical diagrams, such as charts and graphs, are mainly designed to convey mathematical relationships—for example, comparisons over time.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Specific types of mathematical diagrams 
          
          1.1 Argand diagram 
          1.2 Butterfly diagram 
          1.3 Commutative diagram 
          1.4 Hasse diagrams 
          1.5 Knot diagrams 
          1.6 Venn diagram 
          1.7 Voronoi diagram 
          1.8 Wallpaper group diagrams 
          1.9 Young diagram 
          1.10 Other mathematical diagrams 
           
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 Further reading 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Specific types of mathematical diagrams 
      Argand diagram 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Argand diagram.
        
       
       
      A complex number can be visually represented as a pair of numbers forming a vector on a diagram called an Argand diagram The complex plane is sometimes called the Argand plane because it is used in Argand diagrams. These are named after Jean-Robert Argand (1768–1822), although they were first described by Norwegian-Danish land surveyor and mathematician Caspar Wessel (1745–1818). Argand diagrams are frequently used to plot the positions of the poles and zeroes of a function in the complex plane. 
      The concept of the complex plane allows a geometric interpretation of complex numbers. Under addition, they add like vectors. The multiplication of two complex numbers can be expressed most easily in polar coordinates — the magnitude or modulus of the product is the product of the two absolute values, or moduli, and the angle or argument of the product is the sum of the two angles, or arguments. In particular, multiplication by a complex number of modulus 1 acts as a rotation.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Butterfly diagram
        
       
       
      Butterfly diagram 
      In the context of fast Fourier transform algorithms, a butterfly is a portion of the computation that combines the results of smaller discrete Fourier transforms (DFTs) into a larger DFT, or vice versa (breaking a larger DFT up into subtransforms). The name "butterfly" comes from the shape of the data-flow diagram in the radix-2 case, as described below. The same structure can also be found in the Viterbi algorithm, used for finding the most likely sequence of hidden states. 
      The butterfly diagram show a data-flow diagram connecting the inputs x (left) to the outputs y that depend on them (right) for a "butterfly" step of a radix-2 Cooley–Tukey FFT algorithm. This diagram resembles a butterfly as in the morpho butterfly shown for comparison, hence the name.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A commutative diagram depicting the five lemma
        
       
       
      Commutative diagram 
      
      
       Main article: Commutative diagram
       
      In mathematics, and especially in category theory, a commutative diagram is a diagram of objects, also known as vertices, and morphisms, also known as arrows or edges, such that when selecting two objects any directed path through the diagram leads to the same result by composition. 
      Commutative diagrams play the role in category theory that equations play in algebra.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Hasse diagram.
        
       
       
      Hasse diagrams 
      A Hasse diagram is a simple picture of a finite partially ordered set, forming a drawing of the partial order's transitive reduction. Concretely, one represents each element of the set as a vertex on the page and draws a line segment or curve that goes upward from x to y precisely when x &lt; y and there is no z such that x &lt; z &lt; y. In this case, we say y covers x, or y is an immediate successor of x. In a Hasse diagram, it is required that the curves be drawn so that each meets exactly two vertices: its two endpoints. Any such diagram (given that the vertices are labeled) uniquely determines a partial order, and any partial order has a unique transitive reduction, but there are many possible placements of elements in the plane, resulting in different Hasse diagrams for a given order that may have widely varying appearances.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Knot diagram.
        
       
       
      Knot diagrams 
      In Knot theory a useful way to visualise and manipulate knots is to project the knot onto a plane—;think of the knot casting a shadow on the wall. A small perturbation in the choice of projection will ensure that it is one-to-one except at the double points, called crossings, where the "shadow" of the knot crosses itself once transversely 
      At each crossing we must indicate which section is "over" and which is "under", so as to be able to recreate the original knot. This is often done by creating a break in the strand going underneath. If by following the diagram the knot alternately crosses itself "over" and "under", then the diagram represents a particularly well-studied class of knot, alternating knots.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Venn diagram.
        
       
       
      Venn diagram 
      A Venn diagram is a representation of mathematical sets: a mathematical diagram representing sets as circles, with their relationships to each other expressed through their overlapping positions, so that all possible relationships between the sets are shown. 
      The Venn diagram is constructed with a collection of simple closed curves drawn in the plane. The principle of these diagrams is that classes be represented by regions in such relation to one another that all the possible logical relations of these classes can be indicated in the same diagram. That is, the diagram initially leaves room for any possible relation of the classes, and the actual or given relation, can then be specified by indicating that some particular region is null or is not null.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Voronoi centerlines.
        
       
       
      Voronoi diagram 
      A Voronoi diagram is a special kind of decomposition of a metric space determined by distances to a specified discrete set of objects in the space, e.g., by a discrete set of points. This diagram is named after Georgy Voronoi, also called a Voronoi tessellation, a Voronoi decomposition, or a Dirichlet tessellation after Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet. 
      In the simplest case, we are given a set of points S in the plane, which are the Voronoi sites. Each site s has a Voronoi cell V(s) consisting of all points closer to s than to any other site. The segments of the Voronoi diagram are all the points in the plane that are equidistant to two sites. The Voronoi nodes are the points equidistant to three (or more) sites  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Wallpaper group diagram.
        
       
       
      Wallpaper group diagrams 
      A wallpaper group or plane symmetry group or plane crystallographic group is a mathematical classification of a two-dimensional repetitive pattern, based on the symmetries in the pattern. Such patterns occur frequently in architecture and decorative art. There are 17 possible distinct groups. 
      Wallpaper groups are two-dimensional symmetry groups, intermediate in complexity between the simpler frieze groups and the three-dimensional crystallographic groups, also called space groups. Wallpaper groups categorize patterns by their symmetries. Subtle differences may place similar patterns in different groups, while patterns which are very different in style, color, scale or orientation may belong to the same group.  
      Young diagram 
      A Young diagram or Young tableau, also called Ferrers diagram, is a finite collection of boxes, or cells, arranged in left-justified rows, with the row sizes weakly decreasing (each row has the same or shorter length than its predecessor).  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Young diagram.
        
       
       
      Listing the number of boxes in each row gives a partition 
           
            
             
             
              λ
              
             
            
           
            
            
           
          of a positive integer n, the total number of boxes of the diagram. The Young diagram is said to be of shape 
           
            
             
             
              λ
              
             
            
           
            
            
           
         , and it carries the same information as that partition. Listing the number of boxes in each column gives another partition, the conjugate or transpose partition of 
           
            
             
             
              λ
              
             
            
           
            
            
           
         ; one obtains a Young diagram of that shape by reflecting the original diagram along its main diagonal. 
      Young tableaux were introduced by Alfred Young, a mathematician at Cambridge University, in 1900. They were then applied to the study of symmetric group by Georg Frobenius in 1903. Their theory was further developed by many mathematicians.  
       
      Other mathematical diagrams 
      
       Cremona diagram 
       De Finetti diagram 
       Dynkin diagram 
       Elementary diagram 
       Euler diagram 
       Stellation diagram 
       Ulam spiral 
       Van Kampen diagram 
       Taylor diagram
       
      See also 
      
       Category theory 
       Logic diagram 
       Mathematical jargon 
       Mathematical model 
       Mathematics as a language 
       Mathematical visualization 
       Statistical model
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Working with diagrams at LearningSpace.  
         ^ Wessel's memoir was presented to the Danish Academy in 1797; Argand's paper was published in 1806.(Whittaker, Edmund Taylor; Watson, G.N. (1927). A Course of Modern Analysis: An Introduction to the General Theory of Infinite Processes and of Analytic Functions, with an Account of the Principal Transcendental Functions. Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;9. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-521-58807-2.)  
         ^ 
           Rolfsen, Dale (1976). Knots and links. Publish or Perish. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-914098-16-4.  
         ^ "Venn diagram" Archived 2009-11-01 at WebCite, Encarta World English Dictionary, North American Edition 2007. Archived 2009-11-01.  
         ^ Clarence Irving Lewis (1918). A Survey of Symbolic Logic. Republished in part by Dover in 1960. p.&nbsp;157.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Barker-Plummer, Dave; Bailin, Sidney C. (1997). "The Role of Diagrams in Mathematical Proofs". Machine Graphics and Vision. 6 (1): 25–56. 10.1.1.49.4712. (Special Issue on Diagrammatic Representation and Reasoning). 
       
        Barker-Plummer, Dave; Bailin, Sidney C. (2001). "On the practical semantics of mathematical diagrams". In Anderson, M. (ed.). Reasoning with Diagrammatic Representations. Springer Verlag. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-85233-242-6. CiteSeerX: 10.1.1.30.9246. 
       
        Kidman, G. (2002). "The Accuracy of mathematical diagrams in curriculum materials". In Cockburn, A.; Nardi, E. (eds.). Proceedings of the PME 26. Vol.&nbsp;3. University of East Anglia. pp.&nbsp;201–8. 
       
        Kulpa, Zenon (2004). "On Diagrammatic Representation of Mathematical Knowledge". In Andréa Asperti; Bancerek, Grzegorz; Trybulec, Andrzej (eds.). Mathematical knowledge management: third international conference, MKM 2004, Białowieża, Poland, September 19–21, 2004&nbsp;: Proceedings. Springer. pp.&nbsp;191–204. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-23029-8. 
       
        Puphaiboon, K.; Woodcock, A.; Scrivener, S. (25 March 2005). "Design method for developing mathematical diagrams". In Bust, Philip D.; McCabe, P.T. (eds.). Contemporary ergonomics 2005 Proceedings of the International Conference on Contemporary Ergonomics (CE2005). Taylor &amp; Francis. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-415-37448-4.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mathematical diagram.
         
       
       
      
       
        "Diagrams". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Fall 2008. 
       
        Kulpa, Zenon. "Diagrammatics: The art of thinking with diagrams". Archived from the original on April 25, 2013. 
       One of the oldest extant diagrams from Euclid by Otto Neugebauer 
       
        Lomas, Dennis (1998). "Diagrams in Mathematical Education: A Philosophical Appraisal". Philosophy of Education Society. Archived from the original on 2011.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mathematical_diagram&amp;oldid=1019472573"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Diagrams
       Mathematical concepts
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template webcite links
       Commons link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Español
       Македонски
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 23 April 2021, at 14:44&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
