
 
  
   
  Skeletal formula - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Skeletal formula 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       "Skeletal structure" redirects here. For other uses, see Skeleton.
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The skeletal formula of the antidepressant drug escitalopram, featuring skeletal representations of heteroatoms, a triple bond, phenyl groups and stereochemistry
        
       
       
      The skeletal formula, also called line-angle formula or shorthand formula, of an organic compound is a type of molecular structural formula that serves as a shorthand representation of a molecule's bonding and some details of its molecular geometry. A skeletal formula shows the skeletal structure or skeleton of a molecule, which is composed of the skeletal atoms that make up the molecule. It is represented in two dimensions, as on a piece of paper. It employs certain conventions to represent carbon and hydrogen atoms, which are the most common in organic chemistry. 
      An early form of this representation was first developed by the organic chemist Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz, while the modern form is closely related to and influenced by the Lewis (dot) structure of molecules and their valence electrons. For this reason, they are sometimes termed Kekulé structures or Lewis-Kekulé structures. Skeletal formulae have become ubiquitous in organic chemistry, partly because they are relatively quick and simple to draw, and also because the curved arrow notation used for discussions of reaction mechanism and/or delocalization can be readily superimposed. 
      Several other methods for depicting chemical structures are also commonly used in organic chemistry (though less frequently than skeletal formulae). For example, conformational structures look similar to skeletal formulae and are used to depict the approximate positions of the atoms of a molecule in three-dimensional space, as a perspective drawing. Other types of representations, e.g., Newman projections, Haworth projections and Fischer projections, also look somewhat similar to skeletal formulae. However, there are slight differences in the conventions used, and the reader needs to be aware of them in order to understand the structural details that are encoded in these depictions. While skeletal and conformational structures are also used in organometallic and inorganic chemistry, the conventions employed also differ somewhat.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 The skeleton 
          
          1.1 Terminology 
          1.2 Basic structure 
          1.3 Contemporary graphical conventions 
           
        2 Implicit carbon and hydrogen atoms 
        3 Explicit heteroatoms and hydrogen atoms 
        4 Pseudoelement symbols 
          
          4.1 General symbols 
          4.2 Alkyl groups 
          4.3 Aromatic and unsaturated substituents 
          4.4 Functional groups 
          4.5 Sulfonyl/sulfonate groups 
          4.6 Protecting groups 
           
        5 Multiple bonds 
        6 Benzene rings 
        7 Stereochemistry 
        8 Hydrogen bonds 
        9 References 
        10 External links 
        
       
      The skeleton 
      Terminology 
      The skeletal structure of an organic compound is the series of atoms bonded together that form the essential structure of the compound. The skeleton can consist of chains, branches and/or rings of bonded atoms. Skeletal atoms other than carbon or hydrogen are called heteroatoms. 
      The skeleton has hydrogen and/or various substituents bonded to its atoms. Hydrogen is the most common non-carbon atom that is bonded to carbon and, for simplicity, is not explicitly drawn. In addition, carbon atoms are not generally labelled as such directly (i.e. with a "C"), whereas heteroatoms are always explicitly noted as such (i.e. using "N" for nitrogen, "O" for oxygen, etc.) 
      Heteroatoms and other groups of atoms that give rise to relatively high rates of chemical reactivity, or introduce specific and interesting characteristics in the spectra of compounds are called functional groups, as they give the molecule a function. Heteroatoms and functional groups are known collectively as "substituents", as they are considered to be a substitute for the hydrogen atom that would be present in the parent hydrocarbon of the organic compound in question.  
      Basic structure 
      As in Lewis structures, covalent bonds are indicated by line segments, with a doubled or tripled line segment indicating double or triple bonding, respectively. Likewise, skeletal formulae indicate formal charges associated with each atom (although lone pairs are usually optional, see below). In fact, skeletal formulae can be thought of as abbreviated Lewis structures that observe the following simplifications:  
      
       Carbon atoms are represented by the vertices (intersections or termini) of line segments. For clarity, methyl groups are often explicitly written out as Me or CH3, while (hetero)cumulene carbons are frequently represented by a heavy center dot. 
       Hydrogen atoms attached to carbon are implied. An unlabeled vertex is understood to represent a carbon attached to the number of hydrogens required to satisfy the octet rule, while a vertex labeled with a formal charge and/or nonbonding electron(s) is understood to have the number of hydrogen atoms required to give the carbon atom these indicated properties. Optionally, acetylenic and formyl hydrogens can be shown explicitly for the sake of clarity. 
       Hydrogen atoms attached to a heteroatom are shown explicitly. The heteroatom and hydrogen atoms attached thereto are usually shown as a single group (e.g., OH, NH2) without explicitly showing the hydrogen–heteroatom bond. Heteroatoms with simple alkyl or aryl substituents, like methoxy (OMe) or dimethylamino (NMe2), are sometimes shown in the same way, by analogy. 
       Lone pairs on carbene carbons must be indicated explicitly while lone pairs in other cases are optional and are shown only for emphasis. In contrast, formal charges and unpaired electrons on main-group elements are always explicitly shown.
       
      In the standard depiction of a molecule, the canonical form (resonance structure) with the greatest contribution is drawn. However, the skeletal formula is understood to represent the "real molecule"&nbsp;– that is, the weighted average of all contributing canonical forms. Thus, in cases where two or more canonical forms contribute with equal weight (e.g., in benzene, or a carboxylate anion) and one of the canonical forms is selected arbitrarily, the skeletal formula is understood to depict the true structure, containing equivalent bonds of fractional order, even though the delocalized bonds are depicted as nonequivalent single and double bonds.  
      Contemporary graphical conventions
       Since skeletal structures were introduced in the latter half of the 19th century, their appearance has undergone considerable evolution. The graphical conventions in use today date to the 1980s. Thanks to the adoption of the ChemDraw software package as a de facto industry standard (by American Chemical Society, Royal Society of Chemistry, and Gesellschaft Deutscher Chemiker publications, for instance), these conventions have been nearly universal in the chemical literature since the late 1990s. A few minor conventional variations, especially with respect to the use of stereobonds, continue to exist as a result of differing US and UK and Continental European practice, or as a matter of personal preference. As another minor variation between authors, formal charges can be shown with the plus or minus sign in a circle or without the circle. The set of conventions that are followed by most authors is given below, along with illustrative examples.
      
       (1) Bonds between sp2 and/or sp3 hybridized carbon or heteroatoms are conventionally represented using 120° angles whenever possible, with the longest chain of atoms following a zigzag pattern unless interrupted by a cis double bond. Unless all four substituents are explicit, this is true even when stereochemistry is being depicted using wedged or dashed bonds (see below).
       
      
       
        
       
       
      
       (2) If all four substituents to a tetrahedral carbon are explicitly shown, bonds to the two in-plane substituents still meet at 120°; the other two substituents, however, are usually shown with wedged and dashed bonds (to depict stereochemistry) and subtend a smaller angle of 60–90°.
       
      
       
        
       
       
      
       (3) The linear geometry at sp hybridized atoms is normally depicted by line segments meeting at 180°.
       
      
       
        
       
       
      
       (4) Carbo- and heterocycles (3- to 8-membered) are generally represented as regular polygons; larger ring sizes tend to be represented by concave polygons.
       
      
       
        
       
       
      
       (5) Atoms in a group are ordered so that the bond emanates from the atom that is directly attached to the skeleton. For example, the nitro group (NO2), is denoted —NO2 or O2N—, depending on the placement of the bond. In contrast, the isomeric nitrite group is denoted ONO, with the bond appearing on either side. 
       
      
       
        
       
       
      Implicit carbon and hydrogen atoms 
      For example, in the image below, the skeletal formula of hexane is shown. The carbon atom labeled C1 appears to have only one bond, so there must also be three hydrogens bonded to it, in order to make its total number of bonds four. The carbon atom labelled C3 has two bonds to other carbons and is therefore bonded to two hydrogen atoms as well. A ball-and-stick model of the actual molecular structure of hexane, as determined by X-ray crystallography, is shown for comparison, in which carbon atoms are depicted as black balls and hydrogen atoms as white ones.  
      
       
        
       
       
      
       
        
       
       
      It does not matter which end of the chain one starts numbering from, as long as consistency is maintained when drawing diagrams. The condensed formula or the IUPAC name will confirm the orientation. Some molecules will become familiar regardless of the orientation.  
      Explicit heteroatoms and hydrogen atoms 
      All atoms that are not carbon or hydrogen are signified by their chemical symbol, for instance Cl for chlorine, O for oxygen, Na for sodium, and so forth. In the context of organic chemistry, these atoms are commonly known as heteroatoms (where the prefix hetero- comes from the Greek word ἕτερος , meaning "other"). 
      Any hydrogen atoms bonded to heteroatoms are drawn explicitly. In ethanol, C2H5OH, for instance, the hydrogen atom bonded to oxygen is denoted by the symbol H, whereas the hydrogen atoms which are bonded to carbon atoms are not shown directly. 
      Lines representing heteroatom-hydrogen bonds are usually omitted for clarity and compactness, so a functional group like the hydroxyl group is most often written −OH instead of −O−H. These bonds are sometimes drawn out in full in order to accentuate their presence when they participate in reaction mechanisms. 
      Shown below for comparison are a ball-and-stick model (top) of the actual three-dimensional structure of the ethanol molecule in the gas phase, as determined by microwave spectroscopy, its Lewis structure (centre) and its skeletal formula (bottom).  
      
       
        
       
       
      
       
        
       
       
      
       
        
       
       
      Pseudoelement symbols 
      There are also symbols that appear to be chemical element symbols, but represent certain very common substituents or indicate an unspecified member of a group of elements. These are known as pseudoelement symbols or organic elements and are treated like univalent "elements" in skeletal formulae. A list of pseudoelement symbols in common use is shown below:  
      General symbols 
      
       X for any (pseudo)halogen atom (in the related MLXZ notation, X represents a one-electron donor ligand) 
       L or Ln for a ligand or ligands (in the related MLXZ notation, L represents a two-electron donor ligand) 
       M or Met for any metal atom ( is used to indicate a ligated metal, MLn, when the identities of the ligands are unknown or irrelevant) 
       E or El for any electrophile (in some contexts, E is also used to indicate any p-block element) 
       Nu for any nucleophile 
       Z for conjugating electron-withdrawing groups (in the related MLXZ notation, Z represents a zero-electron donor ligand; in unrelated usage, Z is also an abbreviation for the carboxybenzyl group.) 
       D for a deuterium (2H) atom 
       T for a tritium (3H) atom
       
      Alkyl groups 
      
       R for any alkyl group or even any organyl group (Alk can be used to unambiguously indicate an alkyl group) 
       Me for the methyl group 
       Et for the ethyl group 
       Pr, n-Pr, or nPr for the (normal) propyl group (Pr is also the symbol for the element praseodymium. However, since the propyl group is monovalent, while praseodymium is nearly always trivalent, ambiguity rarely, if ever, arises in practice.) 
       i-Pr or iPr for the isopropyl group 
       All for the allyl group (uncommon) 
       Bu, n-Bu or nBu for the (normal) butyl group 
       i-Bu or iBu (i often italicized) for the isobutyl group 
       s-Bu or sBu for the secondary butyl group 
       t-Bu or tBu for the tertiary butyl group 
       Pn for the pentyl group (or Am for the synonymous amyl group, although Am is also the symbol for americium.) 
       Np or Neo for the neopentyl group (Warning: Organometallic chemists often use Np for the related neophyl group, PhMe2C–. Np is also the symbol for the element neptunium.) 
       Cy or Chx for the cyclohexyl group 
       Ad for the 1-adamantyl group 
       Tr or Trt for the trityl group
       
      Aromatic and unsaturated substituents 
      
       Ar for any aromatic substituent (Ar is also the symbol for the element argon. However, argon is inert under all usual conditions encountered in organic chemistry, so the use of Ar to represent an aryl substituent never causes confusion.) 
       Het for any heteroaromatic substituent 
       Bn or Bzl for the benzyl group (not to be confused with Bz for benzoyl group; However, old literature may use Bz for benzyl group.) 
       Dipp for the 2,6-diisopropylphenyl group 
       Mes for the mesityl group 
       Ph, Φ, or φ for the phenyl group (The use of phi for phenyl has been in decline) 
       Tol for the tolyl group 
       Is or Tipp for the 2,4,6-triisopropylphenyl group (the former symbol is derived from the synonym isityl) 
       Cp for the cyclopentadienyl group (Cp was the symbol for cassiopeium, a former name for lutetium) 
       Cp* for the pentamethylcyclopentadienyl group 
       Vi for the vinyl group (uncommon)
       
      Functional groups 
      
       Ac for the acetyl group (Ac is also the symbol for the element actinium. However, actinium is almost never encountered in organic chemistry, so the use of Ac to represent the acetyl group never causes confusion); 
       Bz for the benzoyl group; OBz is the benzoate group 
       Piv for the pivalyl (t-butylcarbonyl) group; OPiv is the pivalate group 
       Bt for the 1-benzotriazolyl group 
       Im for the 1-imidazolyl group 
       NPhth for the phthalimide-1-yl group
       
      Sulfonyl/sulfonate groups 
      Sulfonate esters are often leaving groups in nucleophilic substitution reactions. See the articles on sulfonyl and sulfonate groups for further information.  
      
       Bs for the brosyl (p-bromobenzenesulfonyl) group; OBs is the brosylate group 
       Ms for the mesyl (methanesulfonyl) group; OMs is the mesylate group 
       Ns for the nosyl (p-nitrobenzenesulfonyl) group (Ns was the former chemical symbol for bohrium, then called nielsbohrium); ONs is the nosylate group 
       Tf for the triflyl (trifluoromethanesulfonyl) group; OTf is the triflate group 
       Nf for the nonaflyl (nonafluorobutanesulfonyl) group, CF3(CF2)3SO2; ONf is the nonaflate group 
       Ts for tosyl (p-toluenesulfonyl) group (Ts is also the symbol for the element tennessine. However, tennessine is never encountered in organic chemistry, so the use of Ts to represent the tosyl group never causes confusion); OTs is the tosylate group
       
      Protecting groups 
      A protecting group or protective group is introduced into a molecule by chemical modification of a functional group to obtain chemoselectivity in a subsequent chemical reaction, facilitating multistep organic synthesis.  
      
       Boc for the t-butoxycarbonyl group 
       Cbz or Z for the carboxybenzyl group 
       Fmoc for the fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl group 
       Alloc for the allyloxycarbonyl group 
       Troc for the trichloroethoxycarbonyl group 
       TMS, TBDMS, TES, TBDPS, TIPS, ... for various silyl ether groups 
       PMB for the 4-methoxybenzyl group 
       MOM for the methoxymethyl group 
       THP for the 2-tetrahydropyranyl group
       
      Multiple bonds 
      Two atoms can be bonded by sharing more than one pair of electrons. The common bonds to carbon are single, double and triple bonds. Single bonds are most common and are represented by a single, solid line between two atoms in a skeletal formula. Double bonds are denoted by two parallel lines, and triple bonds are shown by three parallel lines. 
      In more advanced theories of bonding, non-integer values of bond order exist. In these cases, a combination of solid and dashed lines indicate the integer and non-integer parts of the bond order, respectively.  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Hex-3-ene has an internal carbon-carbon double bond
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Hex-1-ene has a terminal double bond
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Hex-3-yne has an internal carbon-carbon triple bond
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Hex-1-yne has a terminal carbon-carbon triple bond
           
          
         
       
      Note: in the gallery above, double bonds have been shown in red and triple bonds in blue. This was added for clarity - multiple bonds are not normally coloured in skeletal formulae.  
      Benzene rings 
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
          
           Thiele style: unified circle
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           Kekulé style: alternating double bonds
          
         
        
        
         
          Represenatations of aromatic benzene ring
         
        
       
       
      In recent years, benzene is generally depicted as a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds, much like the structure originally proposed by Kekulé in 1872. As mentioned above, the alternating single and double bonds of "1,3,5-cyclohexatriene" are understood to be a drawing of one of the two equivalent canonical forms of benzene, in which all carbon-carbon bonds are of equivalent length and have a bond order of 1.5. For aryl rings in general, the two analogous canonical forms are almost always the primary contributors to the structure, but they are nonequivalent, so one structure may make a slightly greater contribution than the other, and bond orders may differ somewhat from 1.5. 
      An alternative representation that emphasizes this delocalization uses a circle, drawn inside the regular hexagon of single bonds. This style, based on one proposed by Johannes Thiele, used to be very common in introductory organic chemistry textbooks and is still frequently used in informal settings. However, because this depiction does not keep track of electron pairs and is unable to show the precise movement of electrons, it has largely been superseded by the Kekuléan depiction in pedagogical and formal academic contexts.  
       
      Stereochemistry 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Different depictions of chemical bonds in skeletal formulae
        
       
       
      Stereochemistry is conveniently denoted in skeletal formulae:  
       
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Ball-and-stick model of 
            (R)-2-chloro-2-fluoropentane
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Skeletal formula of 
            (R)-2-chloro-2-fluoropentane
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Skeletal formula of 
            (S)-2-chloro-2-fluoropentane
           
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          
           Skeletal formula of amphetamine, indicating a mixture of two stereoisomers: (R)- and (S)-
           
          
         
       
      The relevant chemical bonds can be depicted in several ways:  
      
       Solid lines represent bonds in the plane of the paper or screen. 
       Solid wedges represent bonds that point out of the plane of the paper or screen, towards the observer. 
       Hashed wedges or dashed lines (thick or thin) represent bonds that point into the plane of the paper or screen, away from the observer. 
       Wavy lines represent either unknown stereochemistry or a mixture of the two possible stereoisomers at that point. 
       An obsolescent depiction of hydrogen stereochemistry that used to be common in steroid chemistry is the use of a filled circle centered on a vertex (sometimes called H-dot/H-dash/H-circle, respectively) for an upward pointing hydrogen atom and two hash marks next to vertex or a hollow circle for a downward pointing hydrogen atom. 
        
         
          
            
           
            
             
            A small filled circle represented an upward pointing hydrogen, while two hash marks represented a downward pointing one.
           
          
         
        
       
       
      An early use of this notation can be traced back to Richard Kuhn who in 1932 used solid thick lines and dotted lines in a publication. The modern solid and hashed wedges were introduced in the 1940s by Giulio Natta to represent the structure of high polymers, and extensively popularised in the 1959 textbook Organic Chemistry by Donald J. Cram and George S. Hammond. 
      Skeletal formulae can depict cis and trans isomers of alkenes. Wavy single bonds are the standard way to represent unknown or unspecified stereochemistry or a mixture of isomers (as with tetrahedral stereocenters). A crossed double-bond has been used sometimes; is no longer considered an acceptable style for general use, but may still be required by computer software.  
      
       
        
          
         
          
           
          Alkene stereochemistry
         
        
       
       
      Hydrogen bonds 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Using dashed lines (green) to show hydrogen bonding in acetic acid.
        
       
       
      Hydrogen bonds are generally denoted by dotted or dashed lines. In other contexts, dashed lines may also represent partially formed or broken bonds in a transition state.  
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Stoker, H. Stephen (2012). General, Organic, and Biological Chemistry (6th&nbsp;ed.). Cengage. ISBN&nbsp;978-1133103943.  
         ^ This term is ambiguous, because "Kekulé structure" also refers to Kekulé's famous proposal of hexagonal, alternating double-bonds for the structure of benzene.  
         ^ IUPAC Recommendations 1999, Revised Section F: Replacement of Skeletal Atoms  
         ^ 
           Brecher, Jonathan (2008). "Graphical representation standards for chemical structure diagrams (IUPAC Recommendations 2008)". Pure and Applied Chemistry. 80 (2): 277–410. doi:10.1351/pac200880020277. ISSN&nbsp;1365-3075.  
         ^ To prevent a 'kink' from emerging and causing a structure to take up too much vertical space on a page, the IUPAC (Brecher, 2008, p. 352) makes an exception for long chain cis-olefins (e.g., oleic acid), allowing the cis double bond within them to be depicted with 150° angles, so that the zigzags on either side of the double bond can propagate horizontally.  
         ^ 
           Clayden, Jonathan; Greeves, Nick; Warren, Stuart; Wothers, Peter (2001). Organic Chemistry (1st&nbsp;ed.). Oxford University Press. p.&nbsp;27. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-19-850346-0.  
         ^ For instance, the acclaimed 1959 textbook by Morrison and Boyd (6th edition, 1992) uses the Thiele notation as its standard depiction of the aryl ring, while the 2001 textbook by Clayden, Greeves, Warren, and Wothers (2nd edition, 2012) uses the Kekulé notation throughout and warns students to avoid using the Thiele notation when writing mechanisms (p. 144, 2nd ed.).  
         ^ a b 
           Brecher, Jonathan (2006). "Graphical representation of stereochemical configuration (IUPAC Recommendations 2006)" (PDF). Pure Appl. Chem. 78 (10): 1897–1970. doi:10.1351/pac200678101897. S2CID&nbsp;97528124.  
         ^ American and European chemists use slightly different conventions for a hashed bond. Whereas most American chemists draw hashed bonds with short hash marks close to the stereocenter and long hash marks further away (in analogy to wedged bonds), most European chemists start with long hash marks close to the stereocenter that gradually become shorter moving away (in analogy to perspective drawing). In the past, the IUPAC has suggested the use of a hashed bond with hash marks of equal length throughout as a compromise but now prefers the American-style hashed bonds (Brecher, 2006, p. 1905). Some chemists use a thick bond and dotted bond (or hashed bond with equal length hashes) to depict relative stereochemistry and a wedged bond and hashed bond with unequal hashes to depict absolute stereochemistry; most others do not make this distinction.   
         ^ The IUPAC now strongly deprecates this notation.  
         ^ 
           Jensen, William B. (2013). "The Historical Origins of Stereochemical Line and Wedge Symbolism". Journal of Chemical Education. 90 (5): 676–677. Bibcode:2013JChEd..90..676J. doi:10.1021/ed200177u.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Drawing organic molecules from chemguide.co.uk
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Molecular visualization
           
         
         
          Chemical formulas
          
           
           
            
             
              Non-structural formulas
              
                
                
                 Empirical formula 
                 Molecular formula
                 
               
             
             
              Structural formulas
              
                
                
                 Lewis structure 
                 Condensed formula 
                 Skeletal formula
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Molecular models
          
            
            
             Ball-and-stick model 
             Space-filling model 
             CPK coloring
             
           
         
         
          Other ways
          
            
            
             Molecular graph 
             SMILES 
             InChl
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Skeletal_formula&amp;oldid=1060358462"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Organic chemistry
       Chemical formulas
       Chemical structures
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from September 2018
       Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Afrikaans
       العربية
       Bosanski
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 15 December 2021, at 01:16&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
