
 
  
   
  Table (information) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Table (information) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Arrangement of information or data, typically in rows and columns
       
      
      
       For sortable tables in Wikipedia, see Help:Sorting
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An example table rendered in a web browser using HTML.
        
       
       
      A table is an arrangement of information or data, typically in rows and columns, or possibly in a more complex structure. Tables are widely used in communication, research, and data analysis. Tables appear in print media, handwritten notes, computer software, architectural ornamentation, traffic signs, and many other places. The precise conventions and terminology for describing tables vary depending on the context. Further, tables differ significantly in variety, structure, flexibility, notation, representation and use. Information or data conveyed in table form is said to be in tabular format (adjective). In books and technical articles, tables are typically presented apart from the main text in numbered and captioned floating blocks.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Basic description 
          
          1.1 Simple table 
          1.2 Multi-dimensional table 
           
        2 Generic representation 
        3 Specific uses 
          
          3.1 Publishing 
          3.2 Mathematics 
          3.3 Natural sciences 
          3.4 Information technology 
            
            3.4.1 Software applications 
            3.4.2 Software development 
            3.4.3 Databases 
             
           
        4 Historical relationship to furniture 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Basic description 
      A table consists of an ordered arrangement of rows and columns. This is a simplified description of the most basic kind of table. Certain considerations follow from this simplified description:  
      
       the term row has several common synonyms (e.g., record, k-tuple, n-tuple, vector); 
       the term column has several common synonyms (e.g., field, parameter, property, attribute, stanchion); 
       a column is usually identified by a name; 
       a column name can consist of a word, phrase or a numerical index; 
       the intersection of a row and a column is called a cell.
       
      The elements of a table may be grouped, segmented, or arranged in many different ways, and even nested recursively. Additionally, a table may include metadata, annotations, a header, a footer or other ancillary features.  
      Simple table 
      The following illustrates a simple table with three columns and nine rows. The first row is not counted, because it is only used to display the column names. This is called a "header row".  
       
       
        Age table 
        
       
         
         First name 
         Last name 
         Age 
         
         
         Tinu 
         Elejogun 
         14 
         
         
         Javier 
         Zapata 
         28 
         
         
         Lily 
         McGarrett 
         18 
         
         
         Olatunkbo 
         Chijiaku 
         22 
         
         
         Adrienne 
         Anthoula 
         22 
         
         
         Axelia 
         Athanasios 
         22 
         
         
         Jon-Kabat 
         Zinn 
         22 
         
         
         Thabang 
         Mosoa 
         15 
         
         
         Kgaogelo 
         Mosoa 
         11 
         
       
       
      Multi-dimensional table 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         An example of a table containing rows with summary information. The summary information consists of subtotals that are combined from previous rows within the same column.
        
       
       
      The concept of dimension is also a part of basic terminology. Any "simple" table can be represented as a "multi-dimensional" table by normalizing the data values into ordered hierarchies. A common example of such a table is a multiplication table.  
       
       
        Multiplication table 
        
       
         
         × 
         1 
         2 
         3 
         
         
         1  
         1 
         2 
         3 
         
         
         2  
         2 
         4 
         6 
         
         
         3  
         3 
         6 
         9 
        
       
       
      In multi-dimensional tables, each cell in the body of the table (and the value of that cell) relates to the values at the beginnings of the column (i.e. the header), the row, and other structures in more complex tables. This is an injective relation: each combination of the values of the headers row (row 0, for lack of a better term) and the headers column (column 0 for lack of a better term) is related to a unique cell in the table:  
      
       Column 1 and row 1 will only correspond to cell (1,1); 
       Column 1 and row 2 will only correspond to cell (2,1) etc.
       
      The first column often presents information dimension description by which the rest of the table is navigated. This column is called "stub column". Tables may contain three or multiple dimensions and can be classified by the number of dimensions. Multi-dimensional tables may have super-rows - rows that describe additional dimensions for the rows that are presented below that row and are usually grouped in a tree-like structure. This structure is typically visually presented with an appropriate number of white spaces in front of each stub's label. 
      In literature tables often present numerical values, cumulative statistics, categorical values, and at times parallel descriptions in form of text. They can condense large amount of information to a limited space and therefore they are popular in scientific literature in many fields of study.  
      Generic representation 
      As a communication tool, a table allows a form of generalization of information from an unlimited number of different social or scientific contexts. It provides a familiar way to convey information that might otherwise not be obvious or readily understood. 
       For example, in the following diagram, two alternate representations of the same information are presented side by side. On the left is the NFPA 704 standard "fire diamond" with example values indicated and on the right is a simple table displaying the same values, along with additional information. Both representations convey essentially the same information, but the tabular representation is arguably more comprehensible to someone who is not familiar with the NFPA 704 standard. The tabular representation may not, however, be ideal for every circumstance (for example because of space limitations, or safety reasons).
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Adrien Auzout's "A TABLE of the Apertures of Object-Glasses" from a 1665 article in Philosophical Transactions
        
       
       
       
       
        Fire diamond 
        
       
         
         Standard Representation  
           
         Tabular Representation 
         
         
         
          
           
             
             
              
               
               
              
             
              3
             
              2
             
              1
             
            
           
            
           
          
           
           
            Risk levels of hazardous materials in this facility 
            
           
             
             Health Risk 
             Flammability 
             Reactivity 
             Special 
             
             
             Level 3 
             Level 2 
             Level 1 
              
            
           
           
        
       
       
      Specific uses 
      There are several specific situations in which tables are routinely used as a matter of custom or formal convention.  
      Publishing 
      
       Cross-reference (Table of contents)
       
      Mathematics 
      
      
       Main article: Mathematical table
       
      
       Arithmetic (Multiplication table) 
       Logic (Truth table)
       
      Natural sciences 
      
       Chemistry (Periodic table) 
       Oceanography (tide table)
       
      Information technology 
      Software applications 
      Modern software applications give users the ability to generate, format, and edit tables and tabular data for a wide variety of uses, for example:  
      
       word processing applications; 
       spreadsheet applications; 
       presentation software; 
       tables specified in HTML or another markup language
       
      Software development 
      Tables have uses in software development for both high-level specification and low-level implementation. Usage in software specification can encompass ad hoc inclusion of simple decision tables in textual documents through to the use of tabular specification methodologies, examples of which include Software Cost Reduction and Statestep. Proponents of tabular techniques, among whom David Parnas is prominent, emphasize their understandability, as well as the quality and cost advantages of a format allowing systematic inspection, while corresponding shortcomings experienced with a graphical notation were cited in motivating the development of at least two tabular approaches. 
      At a programming level, software may be implemented using constructs generally represented or understood as tabular, whether to store data (perhaps to memoize earlier results), for example, in arrays or hash tables, or control tables determining the flow of program execution in response to various events or inputs.  
      Databases 
      Database systems often store data in structures called tables; in which columns are data fields and rows represent data records.  
      Historical relationship to furniture 
      In medieval counting houses, the tables were covered with a piece of checkered cloth, to count money. Exchequer is an archaic term for the English institution which accounted for money owed to the monarch. Thus the checkerboard tables of stacks of coins are a concrete realization of this information.  
      See also 
       
       
         
          
         Look up table in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       Chart 
       Diagram 
       Abstract data type 
       Column (database) 
       Information graphics 
       Periodic table 
       Reference table 
       Row (database) 
       Table (database) 
       Table (HTML) 
       Tensor 
       Dependent and independent variables
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Fink, Arlene (2005). How to Conduct Surveys. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications. ISBN&nbsp;1-4129-1423-X.  
        ^ 
          McNabb, David (2002). Research Methods in Public Administration and Nonprofit Management. Armonk: M.E. Sharpe. ISBN&nbsp;0-7656-0957-6.  
        ^ 
          Morgan, George (2004). Spss for Introductory Statistics. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum. ISBN&nbsp;0-8058-4789-8.  
        ^ 
          Robey, David (2000). Sound and Structure in the Divine Comedy. Oxford Oxfordshire: Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-19-818498-0.  
        ^ a b 
          Zielinski, Krzysztof (2006). Software Engineering: Evolution and Emerging Technologies. Amsterdam: IOS Press. ISBN&nbsp;1-58603-559-2.  
        ^ see e.g., Page header or Header (computing)  
        ^ The concept of "dimension" is often applied to tables in different contexts and with different meanings. For example, what is described as a "Simple Table" in this article is alternatively described as a "two dimensional array". This is distinct from "multi-dimensional table" as presented in this article.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic N, Gregson C, Hernandez R, Nenadic G (June 2016). "Disentangling the Structure of Tables in Scientific Literature" (PDF). Proceedings of 21st International Conference on Applications of Natural Language to Information Systems (NLDB 2016). Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 9612: 162–174. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-41754-7_14. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-41753-0.  
        ^ 
          Milosevic N, Gregson C, Hernandez R, Nenadic G (February 2019). "A framework for information extraction from tables in biomedical literature". International Journal on Document Analysis and Recognition (IJDAR). 22 (1): 55–78. arXiv:1902.10031. doi:10.1007/s10032-019-00317-0. S2CID&nbsp;62880746.  
        ^ 
          Heitmeyer, Constance L. (2002). "Software Cost Reduction". Washington D.C.: Naval Research Laboratory. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ a b 
          Breen, Michael (2005). "Experience of using a lightweight formal specification method for a commercial embedded system product line" (PDF). Requirements Engineering Journal. 10 (2): 161–172. doi:10.1007/s00766-004-0209-1. S2CID&nbsp;16928695.  
        ^ 
          Janicki, Ryszard; Parnas, David Lorge; Zucker, Jeffery (1997). "Tabular representations in relational documents". In Brink, C.; Kahl, W.; Schmidt, G. (eds.). Relational Methods in Computer Science. Springer Verlag. ISBN&nbsp;3-211-82971-7.  
        ^ 
          Leveson, Nancy G.; Heimdahl, Mats P. E.; Reese, Jon Damon (1999). "Designing Specification Languages for Process-Control Systems: Lessons Learned and Steps to the Future". Seventh ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations on Software Engineering (PDF). Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol.&nbsp;1687. pp.&nbsp;127–146. doi:10.1007/3-540-48166-4_9. hdl:11299/217294. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-540-66538-0.  
       
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Tables (information) at Wikimedia Commons
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Table_(information)&amp;oldid=1060976868"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Infographics
       Data modeling
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikibooks
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaelg
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Қазақша
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
       Plattdüütsch
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Runa Simi
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       ייִדיש
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 December 2021, at 21:23&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
