
 
  
   
  Technical illustration - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Technical illustration 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Process of visually communicating technical concepts or subjects
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Isometric Technical Illustration of an interface card conveying placement of the interface cable.
        
       
       
      Technical Illustration is illustration meant to visually communicate information of a technical nature. Technical illustrations can be components of technical drawings or diagrams. Technical illustrations in general aim "to generate expressive images that effectively convey certain information via the visual channel to the human observer". 
      Technical illustrations generally have to describe and explain the subjects to a nontechnical audience. Therefore, the visual image should be accurate in terms of dimensions and proportions, and should provide "an overall impression of what an object is or does, to enhance the viewer’s interest and understanding".  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Types 
          
          1.1 Types of communication 
          1.2 Types of drawings 
           
        2 Techniques 
        3 Examples 
        4 Further reading 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Types 
      Types of communication 
      Today, technical illustration can be broken down into three categories based on the type of communication:  
      
       Communication with the general public: informs the general public, for example illustrated instructions found in the manuals for automobiles and consumer electronics. This type of technical illustration contains simple terminology and symbols that can be understood by the lay person and is sometimes called creative technical illustration/graphics. 
       Specialized engineering or scientific communication: used by engineers/scientists to communicate with their peers and in specifications. This use of technical illustration has its own complex terminology and specialized symbols; examples are the fields of atomic energy, aerospace and military/defense. These areas can be further broken down into disciplines of mechanical, electrical, architectural engineering and many more. 
       Communication between highly skilled experts: used by engineers to communicate with people who are highly skilled in a field, but who are not engineers. Examples of this type of technical illustration are illustrations found in user/operator documentation. These illustrations can be very complex and have jargon and symbols not understood by the general public, such as illustrations that are part of instructional materials for operating CNC machinery.
       
      Types of drawings 
      Main types of drawings in technical communication are:  
      
       conventional line drawings, 
       exploded view drawings, 
       cutaway drawings, and 
       clip art images
       
      Techniques 
      Technical illustration uses several basic mechanical drawing configurations called axonometric projection. These are:  
      
       Parallel projections (oblique, planometric, isometric, dimetric, and trimetric), and 
       many types of perspective projections (with one, two, or three vanishing points).
       
      Technical illustration and computer-aided design can also use 3D and solid-body projections, such as rapid prototyping.  
      
       In the natural sciences, "scientific illustration" refers to a style of drawing using stippling and simple line techniques to convey information with a minimum of artistic interpretation.
       
      Examples 
      
      
       
        
         Technical Illustrations Gallery
        
       
       
        
          
          
            
            
             
              
             
             
             
             Small kitchen in perspective  
             
            
          
            
            
             
              
             
             
             
             Conventional line illustration of an engine demonstrating perspective and line techniques.  
             
            
          
            
            
             
              
             
             
             
             Illustration of a drum set.  
             
            
          
            
            
             
              
             
             
             
             Gallotia simonyi, example of pen and ink scientific illustration  
             
            
          
            
            
             
              
             
             
             
             Broken view plan, showing the decks of a ship, drawn 1783  
             
            
         
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       McDonnell, Phyllis Wood. With a chapter by Patrick (1994). Scientific illustration&nbsp;: a guide to biological, zoological, and medical rendering techniques, design, printing, and display (2.&nbsp;ed.). New York, NY : Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0471285250.
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Archaeological illustration 
        Association of Medical Illustrators 
        Biological illustration 
        Illustrator 
        Information graphics 
        Information visualisation 
        medical illustration 
        Technical communications 
        Technical drawing
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Ivan Viola and Meister E. Gröller (2005). "Smart Visibility in Visualization". In: Computational Aesthetics in Graphics, Visualization and Imaging. L. Neumann et al. (Ed.)  
         ^ 
           Devis, Mae (14 May 2011). "משרביות". www.laser-group.co.il. Retrieved 14 June 2016.  
         ^ 
           Oliu, Gerald J. Alred, Charles T. Brusaw, Walter E. (2012). The business writer's handbook (10th&nbsp;ed.). Boston: Bedford/St. Martins. p.&nbsp;172. ISBN&nbsp;0312679432. Retrieved 14 June 2016.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Technical illustrations.
         
       
       
      
       Technical Illustration – A Historical Perspective by Kevin Hulsey 
       Technical Illustration in the 21st Century: A Primer for Today’s Professionals by Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) 2007. (requires login) 
       Stuttgart Database of Scientific Illustrators 1450–1950 (DSI) (with more than 6000 entries and 20 search fields)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Technical_illustration&amp;oldid=1039768731"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Illustration
       Scientific illustrators
       Technical drawing
       Object visualization
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from February 2009
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       فارسی
       한국어
       日本語
       Русский
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 20 August 2021, at 16:40&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
