
 
  
   
  Gordon Kindlmann - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Gordon Kindlmann 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American computer scientist
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Gordon Kindlmann
          
        
        
         Citizenship
         USA
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Cornell UniversityUniversity of Utah
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Tensor glyphTeem software libraryDiderot DSL
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer science, information visualization
        
        
         Institutions
         University of ChicagoHarvard Medical SchoolScientific Computing and Imaging InstituteUniversity of Chicago
        
        
         Thesis
         Visualization and Analysis of Diffusion Tensor Fields&nbsp;(2004)
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Christopher R. Johnson
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Gordon L. Kindlmann is an American computer scientist who works on information visualization and image analysis. He is recognized for his contributions in developing tools for tensor data visualization.  
      Biography 
      Gordon Kindlmann graduated from Cornell University with a BA in mathematics in 1995 and a MS in computer graphics in 1998. He then attended the University of Utah for his PhD, where he worked at the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute under Christopher R. Johnson and graduated in 2004. While at Utah, he developed a set of methods for visualizing volumetric data interactively using multidimensional transfer functions, which were each cited over 500 times. 
      Following his PhD, he was a post-doctoral research fellow in the Laboratory of Mathematics in Imaging at Brigham and Women's Hospital affiliated with Harvard Medical School, where he developed the tensor glyph, a scientific visualization tool for visualizing the degrees of freedom of a 
           
            
             
             
              3
              
             
              ×
              
             
              3
              
             
            
           
            
            
           
         . His work in diffusion tensor MRI visualization was included in a chapter of The Visualization Handbook. He joined the computer science faculty at the University of Chicago as an assistant professor in 2009. 
      In 2013, Kindlmann appeared in Computer Chess, an independent comedy-drama film written and directed by Andrew Bujalski about a group of software engineers in 1980 who write programs to compete in computer chess. The film premiered at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize, and subsequently screened at SXSW and the Maryland Film Festival.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Gordon Kindlmann". The Huffington Post. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Kniss, Joe; Kindlmann, Gordon; Hansen, Charles (1 January 2002). "Multidimensional transfer functions for interactive volume rendering". IEEE Transactions on visualization and computer graphics. pp.&nbsp;270–285. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Kindlmann, Gordon; Durkin, James W. (1 January 1998). "Semi-automatic generation of transfer functions for direct volume rendering". Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE symposium on Volume visualization. ACM. pp.&nbsp;79–86. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Kniss, Joe; Kindlmann, Gordon; Hansen, Charles (1 January 2001). "Interactive volume rendering using multi-dimensional transfer functions and direct manipulation widgets". Proceedings of the Conference on Visualization'01. IEEE Computer Society. pp.&nbsp;255–262. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Gordon Kindlmann". Laboratory of Mathematics in Imaging. Harvard Medical School. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
         ^ 
           Kniss, J; Kindlmann, G; Hansen, C (2005). "9". In Johnson, C; Hansen, C (eds.). The Visualization Handbook. Elsevier. pp.&nbsp;189–209.  
         ^ 
           "Computer Chess". IMDb. 7 November 2013. Retrieved 5 April 2017.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gordon_Kindlmann&amp;oldid=1052720729"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Living people
       American computer scientists
       American male actors
       Information visualization experts
       Cornell University alumni
       University of Utah alumni
       University of Chicago faculty
       Computer graphics researchers
       Scientific computing researchers
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using infobox scientist with unknown parameters
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Year of birth missing (living people)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 30 October 2021, at 19:02&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
