
 
  
   
  Michael Friendly - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Michael Friendly 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Michael Friendly
          
        
        
         
          
           Photo mosaic of Michael Friendly, composed of image tiles from the history of data visualization
          
        
        
         Born
          (1945-05-07) May 7, 1945 (age&nbsp;76)
          
           New York City, New York
          
        
        
         Citizenship
         Canadian, American
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (B.S.) Princeton University (M.S., Ph.D.)
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         mosaic plot
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Psychology, data visualization, statistics
        
        
         Institutions
         York University, Toronto
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Harold Gulliksen
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Michael Louis Friendly (born 1945) is an American-Canadian psychologist, Professor of Psychology at York University in Ontario, Canada, and director of its Statistical Consulting Service, especially known for his contributions to graphical methods for categorical and multivariate data, and on the history of data and information visualisation.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Work 
        3 Publications 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Born in New York City, Friendly obtained his BS in 1966 from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and his MS in 1969 from Princeton University. In 1971/2 he also obtained his PhD in psychology at Princeton under supervision of Harold Gulliksen and Peter Ornstein, with the thesis titled "Proximity Analysis and the Structure of Organization in Free Recall." 
      Friendly's first research project in the field of psychometrics and cognitive psychology had started at the Educational Testing Service and Princeton University, and was made possible by a Psychometric Fellowship awarded by the Educational Testing Service. After graduation Friendly jointed the Department of Psychology at the York University in Ontario, Canada, where he continued his research. At the York University he was appointed Associate Professor and later on Professor of Psychology, and since 1985 also director of its Statistical Consulting Service. 
      Friendly is Associate Editor of the Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics and an Editor of Statistical Science. In 2018 he became a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.  
      Work 
      Friendly's research interests have developed over years. It started in the 1970s with the application of quantitative and computer methods to problems in cognitive psychology, including the cognitive aspects of extracting information from graphical displays. In the 1990s Friendly started focussing on the history of statistics and data visualization, and furthermore graphical methods for data and information visualization.  
      Publications 
      Friendly is the author of five books and numerous research papers. Books:  
      
       1988. Advanced Logo: A Language for Learning. Hillsdale, N.J.&nbsp;: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 
       1991. SAS System for Statistical Graphics. Medium: Paperback. 
       2000. Visualizing Categorical Data. Cary, NC: SAS Institute. 
       2006. Visual statistics&nbsp;: seeing data with dynamic interactive graphics. With Forrest W. Young and Pedro M. Valero-Mora. Hoboken, N.J.&nbsp;: Wiley-Interscience. 
       2016. Discrete Data Analysis with R: Visualization and Modeling Techniques for Categorical and Count Data. With David Meyer. Boca Raton, FL&nbsp;: Chapman &amp; Hall/CRC Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-4987-2583-5. Publisher's web site Support web site
       
      Articles, reports, papers. A selection:  
      
       1991. "Interpreting higher order interactions in loglinear analysis: A picture is worth 1000 words". With John Fox. Tech. rep., Institute for Social Research, York University, Toronto, CA. 
       1992. "Graphical methods for categorical data". In: Proceedings of the SAS User's Group International Conference, 17:1367-1373. 
       1994. "A fourfold display for 2 by 2 by K tables". Tech. Rep. 217, York University, Psychology Dept. 
       1994. "Mosaic displays for multi-way contingency tables". In: Journal of the American Statistical Association, 89:190-200. 
       2000. "A brief history of the mosaic display." Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics. 11(1):89-107. URL 
       2000. "The roots and branches of statistical graphics". With Dan Denis. In: Journal de la Société Française de Statistique, 141(4):51-60. (published in 2001). 
       2001/2008. "Milestones in the history of thematic cartography, statistical graphics, and data visualization", URL www.datavis.ca/milestones 32 (2001): 13. .  
       2007. "A brief history of data visualization". In: C. Chen, Wolfgang Härdle and Antony Unwin, eds., Handbook of Computational Statistics: Data Visualization, vol. III, chap. 1, pp.&nbsp;1–34. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag. 
       2007. "Visualizing nature and society". With Gilles Palsky. In: James R. Akerman and Robert W. Karrow, eds., Maps: Finding Our Place in the World, pp.&nbsp;205–251. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. 
       2007. "HE plots for Multivariate General Linear Models." Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 16, 421-444.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ 
          Young, Forrest W.; Valero-Mora, Pedro M.; Friendly, Michael (2011). Visual Statistics: Seeing Data with Dynamic Interactive Graphics. Wiley. Archived from the original on September 17, 2017. Retrieved February 23, 2021.  
        ^ Rosenberg, Daniel, and Anthony Grafton. Cartographies of time: A history of the timeline. Princeton Architectural Press, 2013.  
        ^ Friendly, Michael L. "Proximity Analysis and the Structure of Organization in Free Recall. Archived March 14, 2017, at the Wayback Machine" (1972).  
        ^ Michael Friendly at the Mathematics Genealogy Project  
        ^ 
          ASA Fellows List, American Statistical Association, archived from the original on December 1, 2017, retrieved August 7, 2018  
        ^ SAS System for Statistical Graphics, First Edition, 1st edition ABSTRACT From the Publisher. Retrieved 07 July 2008.  
        ^ Profiles of Faculty Members in the History and Theory of Psychology Area Archived May 24, 2008, at the Wayback Machine. Department of Psychology. York University. Retrieved 07 July 2008.  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy" (PDF). October 29, 2017. Archived (PDF) from the original on September 26, 2018. Retrieved July 7, 2008.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Michael Friendly
         
       
       
      
       Milestones in the History of Thematic Cartography, Statistical Graphics, and Data Visualization: An illustrated chronology of innovations by Michael Friendly and Daniel J. Denis. 
       The Past, Present and Future of Statistical Graphics a 2004 presentation by Michael Friendly on VIEWS, London, Nov, 2004. 
       Carme 2011 - Advances in visualizing categorical data - Michael Friendly a 2011 presentation by Michael Friendly at Carme 2011
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Michael_Friendly&amp;oldid=1058305668"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1945 births
       Living people
       American psychologists
       Information visualization experts
       Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute alumni
       Princeton University alumni
       York University faculty
       Fellows of the American Statistical Association
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Use mdy dates from August 2014
       Articles with hCards
       Pages using infobox scientist with unknown parameters
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       مصرى
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 December 2021, at 18:46&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
