
 
  
   
  Bruce H. McCormick - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Bruce H. McCormick 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Pilot of American Airlines Flight 96
       
      Bruce Howard McCormick (1928–2007) was an American computer scientist, Emeritus Professor at the Department of Computer Science, and founding director of the Brain Networks Lab at Texas A&amp;M University.  
      Biography 
      McCormick took his BS in Physics from MIT in 1950, followed by two years on a Fulbright Scholarship to Cambridge University, England. There he studied quantum field theory with Professor Paul Dirac, founder of the field of quantum mechanics and holder of the 1933 Nobel Prize in Physics, shared with Professor Erwin Schrödinger. McCormick returned to the U.S. to take his PhD in Physics at Harvard University in 1955, with the thesis "Two investigations in meson theory in the non-relativistic limit". He then became a Postdoctoral Fellow at Brookhaven National Laboratory. 
      In 1957 McCormick accepted a post as staff physicist at the Alvarez Hydrogen Bubble Chamber Group at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. The Chamber Group was led by Dr. Luis Alvarez, who later won the 1968 Nobel Prize in Physics. In 1960 Dr. McCormick began 12 years at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he was a professor of physics, computer science, and bioengineering. Afterwards, he served as head of the electrical engineering and computer science department at the University of Illinois at Chicago. McCormick joined Texas A&amp;M in 1983 as the first department head of the newly formed Department of Computer Science in the Dwight Look College of Engineering. In August 2005 Dr. McCormick retired from Texas A&amp;M but continued his research there, exploring and understanding the complexity and scaling properties of the brain's microcircuit structure. 
      McCormick died the first week of December 2007 in Rio Rancho, New Mexico.  
      Publications 
      McCormick has authored numerous books and articles.  
      
       
        Books
        
       
       
      
       1966. Design concepts for an information resource center with option of an attached automated laboratory. With A. M. Richardson. 
       1968. Pattern articulation unit of Illiac III; homogenous Boolean functions in the iterative array.William J. Watson and Richard T. Borovec. 
       1968. Illiac III programming manual. Edited with R. Lansford. 
       1970. Illiac III computer system; brief description and annotated bibliography. 
       1971. Illiac III reference manual. Edited with B.J. Nordmann and others. 
       1971. Interval generalization of switching theory. With R.S. Michalski. 
       1972. Analysis of texture. With S. N. Jayaramamurthy. 
       1987. Visualization in Scientific Computing. Edited with Thomas A. DeFanti and Maxine D. Brown. ACM Press.
       
      
       
        Articles, a selection
        
       
       
      
       1987. "The Usable Intersection of PC Graphics and NTSC Video Recording". With D.J. Sandin. In: IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications. Oct. 1987, pp.&nbsp;50–58. 
       1987. "Visualization in Scientific Computing". With T.A. DeFanti and M.D. Brown. In: Computer Graphics. Vol. 21, No. 6, Nov. 1987. 
       1988. "Scientific Animation Workstations". With M.D. Brown. in: SuperComputing. Fall 1988, pp.&nbsp;10–13. 
       1989. "Scientific Animation Workstations: Creating an Environment for Remote Research, Education, and Communication". With M.D. Brown. In: Academic Computing;;. Feb. 1989, pp. 10–12, 55-57. 
       1989. "Insight Through Images". With M.D. Brown. In: UNIX Review. Mar. 1989, pp. 42–50. 
       1989. "Visualization: Expanding Scientific and Engineering Research Opportunities". With Thomas A. DeFanti and Maxine D. Brown. In: Computer. vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 12–25, Aug., 1989 
       1990. "Advanced visualization environments: knowledge-based image modeling". In: Visualization in supercomputing. July 1990. Pp 135–150. 
       1997. "Grid generation for brain visualization at the cellular and tissue level". With David A. Batte. In: CNS '96: Proceedings of the annual conference on Computational neuroscience&nbsp;: trends in research, 1997. New York&nbsp;: Plenum Press.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Kathy Flores (2007). "Dr. Bruce H. McCormick" Archived February 29, 2008, at the Wayback Machine Texas A&amp;M University. Retrieved 9 July 2008.  
         ^ Bruce H. McCormick Publications 1987-2007.  
         ^  Bruce H. McCormick. List of publications from the DBLP Bibliography Server.  
         ^ Bruce H McCormick ACM author profile page.  
        
       
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Association for Computing Machinery 
             DBLP (computer science) 
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bruce_H._McCormick&amp;oldid=1051761047"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1928 births
       2007 deaths
       Harvard University alumni
       American computer scientists
       MIT Department of Physics alumni
       Texas A&amp;M University faculty
       Information visualization experts
       Alumni of the University of Cambridge
       University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign faculty
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with ACM-DL identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Place of birth missing
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 October 2021, at 13:08&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
