
 
  
   
  Charles Joseph Minard - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Charles Joseph Minard 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Charles Joseph Minard
          
        
        
         Born
         27 March 1781
          
           Dijon, France
          
        
        
         Died
         24 October 1870(1870-10-24) (aged&nbsp;89)
          
           Bordeaux, France
          
        
        
         Nationality
         French
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         École Polytechnique
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Carte figurative des pertes successives en hommes de l'Armée Française dans la campagne de Russie 1812–1813
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Civil engineering and information graphics
        
        
          
        
        
         Signature
        
        
         
        
       
       
      Charles Joseph Minard (/mɪˈnɑːr/; French:&nbsp;; 27 March 1781 – 24 October 1870) was a French civil engineer recognized for his significant contribution in the field of information graphics in civil engineering and statistics. Minard was, among other things, noted for his representation of numerical data on geographic maps, especially his flow maps.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Civil engineering 
          2.2 Information graphics 
            
            2.2.1 Early works 
            2.2.2 Flow maps 
            2.2.3 The map of Napoleon's Russian campaign 
             
          2.3 Recognition 
           
        3 References 
        4 Further reading 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Early life 
      Minard was born in Dijon in the Saint Michel parish. He was the son of Pierre Etienne Minard and Bénigne Boiteux. His father was a clerk of the court and an officer of the secondary school. Minard was baptized at Saint Michel on the day of his birth. He was very bright and his father encouraged him to study at an early age. At age four he learned to read and write, and when he was six his father enrolled him in an elementary course in anatomy. He completed his fourth year of study at the secondary school at Dijon early, and then applied himself to studying Latin, literature, and physical and math sciences. At age 15 and a half, he was admitted to the prestigious École Polytechnique, where he studied from 1796 to 1800. He subsequently studied civil engineering at École nationale des ponts et chaussées (ca. 1800–1803).: 11   
      Work 
      Civil engineering 
      In September 1810 he was sent by the government to Antwerp and then almost immediately to the port of Flushing in Zeeland. There, he solved a critical problem with a cofferdam that was leaking water faster than it could be removed. He solved the problem by using pumps driven by a steam engine, only the third time this solution had been applied to a project. 
      He worked for many years as a civil engineer on the construction of dams, canals and bridge projects throughout Europe. On November 1, 1830, he was named superintendent of the School of Bridges and Roads, where he continued to serve through 1836. While there he was awarded the cross of the Legion of Honor. From 1839 he was inspector of the Corps of Bridges, and from 1846 inspector general and a permanent member of the Conseil général des ponts et chaussées. He retired in 1851 at the mandatory retirement age of 70, after which he dedicated himself to private research, including most famously the creation of a comprehensive body of statistical maps.: 11   
      Information graphics 
      Minard created 51 thematic maps during his lifetime and is considered "a cartographic pioneer in many respects".  
      Early works 
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
          
           Minard's first statistical graphic, from 1825, depicts several time series related to Paris pavement maintenance over the preceding two centuries.
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           An 1844 lithographic print by Minard depicting railroad passenger numbers for various routes. Darker hatching indicates the number of passengers traveling the entire length of the line.
          
         
        
       
       
      Minard's earliest known diagram is from 1825,: 16  but he did not start regularly producing statistical graphics until the 1840s. During this period he became interested in studying passenger and freight traffic to aid in the design of railroads. He created bar charts in which the width of each bar represents the length of the corresponding railroad segment, and its height the number of passengers. Analysis of such graphs led Minard to conclude that passengers and freight traveling for short distances between intermediate stations (and not just end-to-end traffic) were of primary importance in designing rail lines.: 18   
       
      Flow maps 
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
          
           Minard's first flow map, from 1845, depicts road traffic between Dijon and Mulhouse.
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           Minard's map using pie charts to represent the cattle sent from all around France for consumption in Paris (1858)
          
         
        
       
       
      Minard created his "revolutionary": 40  first flow map in 1845 to inform the discussion about routing the rail line in the area between Dijon and Mulhouse. The map shows traffic on the pre-existing roads in the area. Two hundred copies of it were distributed to various stakeholders, and it dominated the debate among the deputies and engineers.: 19  
      In subsequent decades Minard created tens of flow maps, illustrating subjects such as French wine exports and coal imports, British coal exports, freight traffic on French rivers and railways, European cotton imports, and international migration flows. A comprehensive portfolio of his works is today kept at the École nationale des ponts et chaussées.: 33   
       
      The map of Napoleon's Russian campaign 
       Minard is best known for his cartographic depiction of numerical data on a map of Napoleon's disastrous losses suffered during the Russian campaign of 1812 (in French, Carte figurative des pertes successives en hommes de l'Armée Française dans la campagne de Russie 1812–1813). The illustration depicts Napoleon's army departing the Polish-Russian border. A thick band illustrates the size of his army at specific geographic points during their advance and retreat. It displays six types of data in two dimensions: the number of Napoleon's troops; the distance traveled; temperature; latitude and longitude; direction of travel; and location relative to specific dates without making mention of Napoleon; Minard's interest lay with the travails and sacrifices of the soldiers. This type of band graph for illustration of flows was later called a Sankey diagram, although Matthew Henry Phineas Riall Sankey used this visualisation 30 years later and only for thematic energy flow.  
      
       
        
          
         
          
           
          Charles Minard's map of Napoleon's disastrous Russian campaign of 1812. The graphic is notable for its representation in two dimensions of six types of data: the number of Napoleon's troops; distance; temperature; the latitude and longitude; direction of travel; and location relative to specific dates.
         
        
       
       
      The original description in French accompanying the map translated to English:  
      
      
       Figurative Map of the successive losses in men of the French Army in the Russian campaign 1812–1813. 
       Drawn by M. Minard, Inspector General of Bridges and Roads (retired). Paris, November 20, 1869. The numbers of men present are represented by the widths of the colored zones at a rate of one millimeter for every ten thousand men; they are further written across the zones. The red designates the men who enter Russia, the black those who leave it. — The information which has served to draw up the map has been extracted from the works of M. M. Thiers, de Ségur, de Fezensac, de Chambray and the unpublished diary of Jacob, the pharmacist of the Army since October 28th. 
        In order to better judge with the eye the diminution of the army, I have assumed that the troops of Prince Jérôme and of Marshal Davout, who had been detached at Minsk and Mogilev and have rejoined near Orsha and Vitebsk, had always marched with the army.
       
      A modern redrawing of the map, translated into English:  
      
       
        
          
         
          
           
          Modern redrawing of Charles Joseph Minard's figurative map of the 1812 French invasion of Russia, including a table of temperatures converting degrees Réaumur to degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius
         
        
       
       
      Recognition 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Eugène Rouher painted by Alexandre Cabanel, ca. 1861. A map by Charles Joseph Minard is draped over the chair in the background.
        
       
       
      Minard's information graphics, many of which illustrated the flows of goods and people in transportation networks, were appreciated by public works officials during his lifetime. Eugène Rouher, the secretary of agriculture, commerce, and public works in the government of Napoleon III, subscribed to Minard's prints, allowing him to publish ten thousand copies of maps on various subjects. Rouher also presented Minard's maps to Napoleon III and included one of them in the background of his portrait, exhibited at the 1861 Paris Salon.: 26  
      Modern information scientists say the 1869 map of Napoleon's Russian campaign may be the best statistical graphic ever drawn. French scientist, physiologist and chronophotographer Étienne-Jules Marey praised "its brutal eloquence, which seems to defy the pen of the historian". Information designer Edward Tufte says it "may well be the best statistical graphic ever drawn" and uses it as a prime example in The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. Howard Wainer identified Minard's map as a "gem" of information graphics, nominating it as the "World's Champion Graph". The Economist described it as one of "three of history's best" charts.  
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c d Chevallier, V. (1871). "The Life of Charles Joseph Minard (1781–1870)". Finley, Dawn (translator). From 
          "Notice nécrologique sur M. Minard, inspecteur général des ponts et chaussées, en retraite". Annales des ponts et chaussées (in French). 2: 1–22. 1871. Posted by Edward Tufte.  
        ^ a b c d e f g h 
          Rendgen, Sandra (2018). The Minard System: the complete statistical graphics of Charles-Joseph Minard, from the collection of the École Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées. Princeton Architectural Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-61689-633-1.  
        ^ Arthur H. Robinson (1967), "The Thematic Maps of Charles Joseph Minard", Imago Mundi, Vol. 21, (1967), pp. 95–108  
        ^ a b c 
          Corbett, John. "Charles Joseph Minard: Mapping Napoleon's March, 1861". Center for Spatially Integrated Social Science. Archived from the original on 12 March 2017. Retrieved 21 September 2014.  
        ^ 
          "Minard's Sources—from Virginia Tufte and Dawn Finley, August 7, 2002".  
        ^ 
          Marey, Étienne-Jules (1878). La méthode graphique dans les sciences expérimentales. As cited in Rendgen (2018), p. 8.}: CS1 maint: location (link)  
        ^ Edward R. Tufte (2001). The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. p. 40  
        ^ 
          "Poster: Napoleon's March". Edward Tufte. Retrieved 21 September 2014.  
        ^ Howard Wainer (1984). "How to Display Data Badly". In: American Statistician 38 (2): p. 146 (pp. 136–147).  
        ^ 
          "Worth a thousand words". The Economist. 7 October 2013. Retrieved 25 December 2018.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Rendgen, Sandra (2018): The Minard System. The Complete Statistical Graphics of Charles-Joseph Minard. New York, Princeton Architectural Press, 2018, 
        ISBN&nbsp;9781616896331. 
       Michael Friendly (2002). "Visions and re-visions of Charles Joseph Minard." Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics. 27 (1), 31 – 52. 
       Minard, Charles-Joseph. Des Tableaux graphiques et des cartes figuratives, par M. Minard,... Thunot, 1862. 
       Robinson, Arthur H. "The thematic maps of Charles Joseph Minard."  Imago Mundi 21 (1967): 95–108. 
       
        Edward R. Tufte (2001). The Visual Display of Quantitative Information (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Graphics Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-9613921-4-2. 
       Wainer, Howard. "Visual Revelations: A Graphical Legacy of Charles Joseph Minard: Two Jewels from the Past." Chance 16.1 (2003): 58–62. 
       The Underappreciated Man Behind the “Best Graphic Ever Produced: He’s known for his acclaimed depiction of Napoleon’s ill-fated invasion of Russia. But Charles Minard was full of innovative visualizations. National Geographic, By Betsy Mason MARCH 16, 2017. 
       Finding Minard, March 16, 2017. 
       Charles Radiguet is the great-great grandson of Charles Joseph Minard. He visited the SS Nomadic in Belfast, which was named after Charles Joseph Minard (https://twitter.com/ssnomadic/status/760177082370449409?lang=en)
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Charles Joseph Minard.
         
       
       
      
       Comprehensive collection of digitized works by Minard (writings and maps), École Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées 
       Background on Minard's graph including original sources, Edward Tufte 
       The Graphic Works of Charles Joseph Minard, Michael Friendly, York University (Ontario) Department of Psychology 
       Minard biography, Michael Friendly 
       Re-Visions of Minard, Michael Friendly 
       
        Grime, Dr. James. "The Greatest Ever Infographic" (video). Brady Haran. Archived from the original on 2021-12-19. Retrieved 3 April 2014. 
       
        "Digital collection of cards and documents of Charles-Joseph Minard, kept in École nationale des ponts et chaussées's library". École nationale des ponts et chaussées. Retrieved 24 June 2016.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Czech Republic 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Art research institutes
          
            
            
             Scientific illustrators
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Léonore (France) 
              
               The Léonore id LH/1883/3 is not valid.
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Charles_Joseph_Minard&amp;oldid=1065198899"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1781 births
       1870 deaths
       People from Dijon
       École Polytechnique alumni
       French civil engineers
       Information graphic designers
       Information visualization experts
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 French-language sources (fr)
       CS1 maint: location
       Biography with signature
       Articles with hCards
       Commons link from Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with DSI identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with faulty Léonore identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Deutsch
       Español
       Euskara
       Français
       Íslenska
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Malagasy
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Русский
       Türkçe
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 12 January 2022, at 09:14&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
