
 
  
   
  Otto Neurath - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Otto Neurath 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Otto Neurath"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (August 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       Austrian economist, philosopher and sociologist
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Otto Neurath
          
        
        
         
          
           Photo of Neurath published in 1919
          
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Otto Karl Wilhelm Neurath
          (1882-12-10)10 December 1882
          
           Vienna, Austro-Hungarian Empire&nbsp;(now Austria)
          
        
        
         Died
         22 December 1945(1945-12-22) (aged&nbsp;63)
          
           Oxford, England
          
        
        
         Education
         University of Vienna&nbsp;(no degree)University of Berlin&nbsp;(Ph.D., 1906)Heidelberg University&nbsp;(Dr. phil. hab., 1917)
        
        
         
          
        
        
         Era
         20th-century philosophy
        
        
         Region
         Western philosophy
        
        
         School
         Analytic philosophyLogical positivismVienna CircleEpistemic coherentism
        
        
         Theses
         
           
           
            Zur Anschauung der Antike über Handel, Gewerbe und Landwirtschaft (On the Conceptions in Antiquity of Trade, Commerce and Agriculture)&nbsp;(1906) 
            Die Kriegswirtschaftslehre und ihre Bedeutung für die Zukunft (War Economics and Their Importance for the Future)&nbsp;(1917)
            
          
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Gustav Schmoller, Eduard Meyer
        
        
         
          
           Main interests
          
         Philosophy of science
        
        
         
          
           Notable ideas
          
         PhysicalismProtokollsatz (protocol statement)Neurath's boatIsotype
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influences
            
            
           
            
             
              Ernst Mach, James George Frazer
             
            
          
        
        
         
           
           
            
             Influenced
            
            
           
            
             
              Berlin Circle, Vienna Circle, John O'Neill
             
            
          
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Otto Karl Wilhelm Neurath (German: ; 10 December 1882 – 22 December 1945) was an Austrian-born philosopher of science, sociologist, and political economist. He was also the inventor of the ISOTYPE method of pictorial statistics and an innovator in museum practice. Before he fled his native country in 1934, Neurath was one of the leading figures of the Vienna Circle.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life 
        2 Career in Vienna 
        3 Exile 
          
          3.1 Netherlands 
          3.2 British Isles 
           
        4 Ideas 
          
          4.1 Philosophy of science and language 
          4.2 Economics 
           
        5 Selected publications 
          
          5.1 Books 
          5.2 Articles 
           
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Early life 
      Neurath was born to a Jewish family in Vienna, the son of Wilhelm Neurath (1840–1901), a well-known political economist at the time. Helene Migerka was his cousin. He studied mathematics and physics at the University of Vienna (he formally enrolled for classes only for two semesters in 1902–3). In 1906, he gained his Ph.D. in the department of Political Science and Statistics at the University of Berlin with a thesis entitled Zur Anschauung der Antike über Handel, Gewerbe und Landwirtschaft (On the Conceptions in Antiquity of Trade, Commerce and Agriculture). 
      He married Anna Schapire in 1907, who died in 1911 while bearing their son, Paul, and then married a close friend, the mathematician and philosopher Olga Hahn. Perhaps because of his second wife's blindness and then because of the outbreak of war, Paul was sent to a children's home outside Vienna, where Neurath's mother lived, and returned to live with both of his parents when he was nine years old.  
      Career in Vienna 
      Neurath taught political economy at the New Vienna Commercial Academy in Vienna) until war broke out. Subsequently, he directed the Department of War Economy in the War Ministry. In 1917, he completed his habilitation thesis Die Kriegswirtschaftslehre und ihre Bedeutung für die Zukunft (War Economics and Their Importance for the Future) at Heidelberg University. In 1918, he became director of the Deutsches Kriegswirtschaftsmuseum (German Museum of War Economy, later the "Deutsches Wirtschaftsmuseum") at Leipzig. Here he worked with Wolfgang Schumann, known from the Dürerbund for which Neurath had written many articles. During the political crisis which led to the armistice, Schumann urged him to work out a plan for socialization in Saxony. Along with Schumann and Hermann Kranold developed the Programm Kranold-Neurath-Schumann. Neurath then joined the German Social Democratic Party in 1918–19 and ran an office for central economic planning in Munich. When the Bavarian Soviet Republic was defeated, Neurath was imprisoned but returned to Austria after intervention from the Austrian government. While in prison, he wrote Anti-Spengler, a critical attack on Oswald Spengler's Decline of the West. 
      In Red Vienna, he joined the Social Democrats and became secretary of the Austrian Association for Settlements and Small Gardens (Verband für Siedlungs-und Kleingartenwesen), a collection of self-help groups that set out to provide housing and garden plots to its members. In 1923, he founded a new museum for housing and city planning called Siedlungsmuseum. In 1925 he renamed it Gesellschafts- und Wirtschaftsmuseum in Wien (Museum of Society and Economy in Vienna) and founded an association for it, in which the Vienna city administration, the trade unions, the Chamber of Workers and the Bank of Workers became members. Then-mayor Karl Seitz acted as first proponent of the association. Julius Tandler, city councillor for welfare and health, served at the first board of the museum together with other prominent social democratic politicians. The museum was provided with exhibition rooms at buildings of the city administration, the most prominent being the People's Hall at the Vienna City Hall. 
      To make the museum understandable for visitors from all around the polyglot Austro-Hungarian Empire, Neurath worked on graphic design and visual education, believing that "Words divide, pictures unite," a coinage of his own that he displayed on the wall of his office there. In the late 1920s, graphic designer and communications theorist Rudolf Modley served as an assistant to Neurath, contributing to a new means of communication: a visual "language." With the illustrator Gerd Arntz and with Marie Reidemeister (who he would marry in 1941), Neurath developed novel ways of representing quantitative information via easily interpretable icons. The forerunner of contemporary Infographics, he initially called this the Vienna Method of Pictorial Statistics. As his ambitions for the project expanded beyond social and economic data related to Vienna, he renamed the project "Isotype", an acronymic nickname for the project's full title: International System of Typographic Picture Education. At international conventions of city planners, Neurath presented and promoted his communication tools. During the 1930s, he also began promoting Isotype as an International Picture Language, connecting it both with the adult education movement and with the Internationalist passion for new and artificial languages like Esperanto, although he stressed in talks and correspondence that Isotype was not intended to be a stand-alone language and was limited in what it could communicate. 
      In the 1920s, Neurath also became an ardent logical positivist, and was the main author of the Vienna Circle manifesto. He was the driving force behind the Unity of Science movement and the International Encyclopedia of Unified Science.  
      Exile 
      Netherlands 
      During the Austrian Civil War in 1934, Neurath had been working in Moscow. Anticipating problems, he had asked to get a coded message in case it would be dangerous for him to return to Austria. As Marie Reidemeister reported later, after receiving the telegram "Carnap is waiting for you," Neurath chose to travel to The Hague, the Netherlands, instead of Vienna, to be able to continue his international work. He was joined by Arntz after affairs in Vienna had been sorted out as best they could. His wife also fled to the Netherlands, where she died in 1937.  
      British Isles 
      After the Luftwaffe had bombed Rotterdam, he and Marie Reidemeister fled to Britain, crossing the Channel with other refugees in an open boat. He and Reidemeister married in 1941 after a period of being interned on the Isle of Man (Neurath was in Onchan Camp). In Britain, he and his wife set up the Isotype Institute in Oxford and he was asked to advise on, and design Isotype charts for, the intended redevelopment of the slums of Bilston, near Wolverhampton. 
      Neurath died, suddenly and unexpectedly, in December 1945. After his death, Marie Neurath continued the work of the Isotype Institute, publishing Neurath's writings posthumously, completing projects he had started and writing many children's books using the Isotype system, until her death in the 1980s.  
      Ideas 
      Philosophy of science and language 
      Neurath's work on protocol statements tried to reconcile an empiricist concern for the grounding of knowledge in experience with the essential publicity of science. Neurath suggested that reports of experience should be understood to have a third-person and hence public and impersonal character, rather than as being first person subjective pronouncements. Bertrand Russell took issue with Neurath's account of protocol statements in his book An Inquiry Into Meaning and Truth (p.&nbsp;139ff), on the grounds that it severed the connection to experience that is essential to an empiricist account of truth, facts and knowledge. 
      One of Neurath's later and most important works, Physicalism, completely transformed the nature of the logical positivist discussion of the program of unifying the sciences. Neurath delineates and explains his points of agreement with the general principles of the positivist program and its conceptual bases:  
      
       the construction of a universal system which would comprehend all of the knowledge furnished by the various sciences, and 
       the absolute rejection of metaphysics, in the sense of any propositions not translatable into verifiable scientific sentences.
       
      He then rejects the positivist treatment of language in general and, in particular, some of Wittgenstein's early fundamental ideas. 
      First, Neurath rejects isomorphism between language and reality as useless metaphysical speculation, which would call for explaining how words and sentences could represent things in the external world. Instead, Neurath proposed that language and reality coincide—that reality consists in simply the totality of previously verified sentences in the language, and "truth" of a sentence is about its relationship to the totality of already verified sentences. If a sentence fails to "concord" (or cohere) with the totality of already verified sentences, then either it should be considered false, or some of that totality's propositions must be modified somehow. He thus views truth as internal coherence of linguistic assertions, rather than anything to do with facts or other entities in the world. Moreover, the criterion of verification is to be applied to the system as a whole (see semantic holism) and not to single sentences. Such ideas profoundly shaped the holistic verificationism of Willard Van Orman Quine. Quine's book Word and Object (p.&nbsp;3f) made famous Neurath's analogy which compares the holistic nature of language and consequently scientific verification with the construction of a boat which is already at sea (cf. Ship of Theseus):  
      
      
       We are like sailors who on the open sea must reconstruct their ship but are never able to start afresh from the bottom. Where a beam is taken away a new one must at once be put there, and for this the rest of the ship is used as support. In this way, by using the old beams and driftwood the ship can be shaped entirely anew, but only by gradual reconstruction.
       
      Keith Stanovich discusses this metaphor in context of memes and memeplexes and refers to this metaphor as a "Neurathian bootstrap". 
      Neurath also rejected the notion that science should be reconstructed in terms of sense data, because perceptual experiences are too subjective to constitute a valid foundation for the formal reconstruction of science. Thus, the phenomenological language that most positivists were still emphasizing was to be replaced by the language of mathematical physics. This would allow for the required objective formulations because it is based on spatio-temporal coordinates. Such a physicalistic approach to the sciences would facilitate the elimination of every residual element of metaphysics because it would permit them to be reduced to a system of assertions relative to physical facts. 
      "Finally, Neurath suggested that since language itself is a physical system, because it is made up of an ordered succession of sounds or symbols, it is capable of describing its own structure without contradiction." 
      These ideas helped form the foundation of the sort of physicalism which remains the dominant position in metaphysics and especially the philosophy of mind.  
      Economics 
      In economics, Neurath was notable for his advocacy of ideas like "in-kind" economic accounting in place of monetary accounting. In the 1920s, he also advocated Vollsozialisierung, that is "complete" rather than merely partial "socialization". Thus, he advocated changes to the economic system that were more radical than those of the mainstream Social-Democratic parties of Germany and Austria. In the 1920s, Neurath debated these matters with leading Social Democratic theoreticians (such as Karl Kautsky, who insisted that money is necessary in a socialist economy). While serving as a government economist during the war, Neurath had observed that "As a result of the war, in-kind calculus was applied more often and more systematically than before.... war was fought with ammunition and with the supply of food, not with money" i.e. that goods were incommensurable. This convinced Neurath of the feasibility of economic planning in terms of amounts of goods and services, without use of money. In response to these ideas, Ludwig von Mises wrote his famous essay of 1920, "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth". 
      Otto Neurath believed it was ‘war socialism’ that would come into effect after capitalism. For Neurath, war economies showed advantages in speed of decision and execution, optimal distribution of means relative to (military) goals, and no-nonsense evaluation and utilization of inventiveness. Two disadvantages which he perceived as resulting from centralized decision-making were a reduction in productivity and a loss of the benefits of simple economic exchanges; but he thought that the reduction in productivity could be mitigated by means of "scientific" techniques based on analysis of work-flows etc. as advocated by Frederick Winslow Taylor. Neurath believed that socio-economic theory and scientific methods could be applied together in contemporary practice. 
      Neurath's view on socioeconomic development was similar to the materialist conception of history first elaborated in classical Marxism, in which technology and the state of epistemology come into conflict with social organization. In particular, Neurath, influenced also by James George Frazer, associated the rise of scientific thinking and empiricism / positivism with the rise of socialism, both of which were coming into conflict with older modes of epistemology such as theology (which was allied with idealist philosophy), the latter of which served reactionary purposes. However, Neurath followed Frazer in claiming that primitive magic closely resembled modern technology, implying an instrumentalist interpretation of both. Neurath claimed that magic was unfalsifiable and therefore disenchantment could never be complete in a scientific age. Adherents of the scientific view of the world recognize no authority other than science and reject all forms of metaphysics. Under the socialist phase of history, Neurath predicted that the scientific worldview would become the dominant mode of thought.  
      Selected publications 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A photograph of the book Basic by Isotype, showing examples of the Isotype picture language that Neurath promoted.
        
       
       
      Most publications by and about Neurath are still available only in German. However he also wrote in English, using Ogden's Basic English. His scientific papers are held at the Noord-Hollands Archief in Haarlem; the Otto and Marie Neurath Isotype Collection is held in the Department of Typography &amp; Graphic Communication at the University of Reading in England.  
      Books 
      
       1913. Serbiens Erfolge im Balkankriege: Eine wirtschaftliche und soziale Studie. Wien&nbsp;: Manz. 
       1921. Anti-Spengler. München, Callwey Verlag. 
       1926. Antike Wirtschaftsgeschichte. Leipzig, Berlin: B. G. Teubner. 
       1928. Lebensgestaltung und Klassenkampf. Berlin: E. Laub. 
       1933. Einheitswissenschaft und Psychologie. Wien. 
       1936. International Picture Language; the First Rules of Isotype. London: K. Paul, Trench, Trubner &amp; co., ltd., 1936 
       1937. Basic by Isotype. London, K. Paul, Trench, Trubner &amp; co., ltd. 
       1939. Modern Man in the Making. Alfred A. Knopf 
       1944. Foundations of the Social Sciences. University of Chicago Press 
       1944. International Encyclopedia of Unified Science. With Rudolf Carnap, and Charles W. Morris (eds.). University of Chicago Press. 
       1946. Philosophical Papers, 1913–1946: With a Bibliography of Neurath in English. Marie Neurath and Robert S. Cohen, with Carolyn R. Fawcett, eds. 1983 
       1973. Empiricism and Sociology. Marie Neurath and Robert Cohen, eds. With a selection of biographical and autobiographical sketches by Popper and Carnap. Includes abridged translation of Anti-Spengler.
       
      Articles 
      
       1912. The problem of the pleasure maximum. In: Cohen and Neurath (eds.) 1983 
       1913. The lost wanderers of Descartes and the auxiliary motive. In: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1916. On the classification of systems of hypotheses. In: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1919. Through war economy to economy in kind. In: Neurath 1973 (a short fragment only) 
       1920a. Total socialisation. In: Cohen and Uebel 2004 
       1920b. A system of socialisation. In: Cohen and Uebel 2004 
       1928. Personal life and class struggle. In: Neurath 1973 
       1930. Ways of the scientific world-conception. In: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1931a. The current growth in global productive capacity. In: Cohen and Uebel 2004 
       1931b. Empirical sociology. In: Neurath 1973 
       1931c. Physikalismus. In: Scientia&nbsp;: rivista internazionale di sintesi scientifica, 50, 1931, pp.&nbsp;297–303 
       1932. Protokollsätze (Protocol statements).In: Erkenntnis, Vol. 3. Repr.: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1935a. Pseudorationalism of falsification. In: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1935b. The unity of science as a task. In: Cohen and Neurath 1983 
       1937. Die neue enzyklopaedie des wissenschaftlichen empirismus. In: Scientia: rivista internazionale di sintesi scientifica, 62, 1937, pp. 309–320 
       1938 'The Departmentalization of Unified Science', Erkenntnis VII, pp. 240–46 
       1940. Argumentation and action. The Otto Neurath Nachlass in Haarlem 198 K.41 
       1941. The danger of careless terminology. In: The New Era 22: 145–50 
       1942. International planning for freedom. In: Neurath 1973 
       1943. Planning or managerial revolution. (Review of J. Burnham, The Managerial Revolution). The New Commonwealth 148–54 
       1943–5. Neurath–Carnap correspondence, 1943–1945. The Otto Neurath Nachlass in Haarlem, 223 
       1944b. Ways of life in a world community. The London Quarterly of World Affairs, 29–32 
       1945a. Physicalism, planning and the social sciences: bricks prepared for a discussion v. Hayek. 26 July 1945. The Otto Neurath Nachlass in Haarlem 202 K.56 
       1945b. Neurath–Hayek correspondence, 1945. The Otto Neurath Nachlass in Haarlem 243 
       1945c. Alternatives to market competition. (Review of F. Hayek, The Road to Serfdom). The London Quarterly of World Affairs 121–2 
       1946a. The orchestration of the sciences by the encyclopedism of logical empiricism. In: Cohen and. Neurath 1983 
       1946b. After six years. In: Synthese 5:77–82 
       1946c. The orchestration of the sciences by the encyclopedism of logical empiricism. In: Cohen and. Neurath 1983 
       1946. From Hieroglyphics to Isotypes. Nicholson and Watson. Excerpts. Rotha (1946) claims that this is in part Neurath's autobiography.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c Cat, Jordi. "Otto Neurath (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 2017-05-26.  
         ^ 
           Neurath, edited by Marie; Cohen, Robert S. (1973). Empiricism and sociology&nbsp;: the life and work of Otto Neurath. : Reidel. pp.&nbsp;2. ISBN&nbsp;978-9027702593. }: |first1= has generic name (help)  
         ^ "Otto Neurath: Empiricism and Sociology". edited by Marie Neurath and Robert S. Cohen. Dordrecht-Holland/Boston-USA: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1973  
         ^ The actual museum's website: http://www.wirtschaftsmuseum.at/wminorg.htm  
         ^ 
           Edmonds, David (2020). The Murder of Professor Schlick: The Rise and Fall of the Vienna Circle (First&nbsp;ed.). Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;60. ISBN&nbsp;9780691164908. Worte trennen, Bilder verbinden.  
         ^ 
           Bresnahan, Keith (2011). ""An Unused Esperanto": Internationalism and Pictographic Design, 1930-70". Design and Culture. 3 (1): 5–24. doi:10.2752/175470810X12863771378671. S2CID&nbsp;147279431.  
         ^ 
           Berko, Lex. "Isotype, the Proto-Infographic You Probably Didn't Know Existed". Vice. No.&nbsp;12 September 2013. Vice Media. Retrieved 7 November 2020.  
         ^ 
           Edmonds, David (2020). The Murder of Professor Schlick: The Rise and Fall of the Vienna Circle (First&nbsp;ed.). Princeton: Princeton University Press. p.&nbsp;60. ISBN&nbsp;9780691164908.  
         ^ Stanovich, Keith E. (2004-05-15). The Robot's Rebellion: Finding Meaning in the Age of Darwin (1 ed.). University Of Chicago Press. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-226-77089-3.  
         ^ John O'Neill, "Socialist Calculation and Environmental Valuation: Money, Markets and Ecology," Science &amp; Society, LXVI/1 (Spring 2002); Joan Martinez-Alier and Klaus Schlupmann, Ecological Economics: Energy, Environment, and Society (1987), 212-218.  
         ^ Günther Chaloupek, "Otto Neurath's Concepts of Socialization and Economic Calculation and his Socialist Critics"(2006), at www.chaloupek.eu/work/NeurathFin.pdf  
         ^ Otto Neurath, ed. T. Uebel and R. S. Cohen, Economic Writings (2004), 304.  
         ^ 
           "Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth by Ludwig von Mises". Ludwig von Mises Institute. Retrieved 1 December 2013.  
         ^ 
           John O'Neill (Nov–Dec 1995). "In partial praise of a positivist: The work of Otto Neurath". Radical Philosophy. Retrieved 16 October 2018.  
         ^ 
           Desai, Meghnad (2002). Marx's Revenge. Verso. pp.&nbsp;190–195.  
         ^ 
           Josephson-Storm, Jason (2017). The Myth of Disenchantment: Magic, Modernity, and the Birth of the Human Sciences. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp.&nbsp;225–6. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-40336-6.  
         ^ 
           Josephson-Storm, Jason (2017). The Myth of Disenchantment: Magic, Modernity, and the Birth of the Human Sciences. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. p.&nbsp;227. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-40336-6.  
         ^ 
           Jacobs, Straun; Otto, Karl-Heinz. "Otto Neurath: Marxist member of the Vienna Circle" (PDF). Retrieved September 7, 2014.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Cartwright, Nancy, J. Cat, L. Fleck, and T. Uebel, 1996. Otto Neurath: Philosophy between Science and Politics. Cambridge University Press 
       Cohen R. S. and M. Neurath (eds.) 1983. Otto Neurath: Philosophical Papers. Reidel 
       Cohen, R. S. and T. Uebel (eds.) 2004. Otto Neurath: Economic Writings 1904–1945. Kluwer 
       Dutto, Andrea Alberto, 2017, "The Pyramid and the Mosaic. Otto Neurath’s encyclopedism as a critical model," Footprint. Delft Architecture Theory Journal, #20. 
       Matthew Eve and Christopher Burke: Otto Neurath: From Hieroglyphics to Isotype. A Visual Autobiography, Hyphen Press, London 2010 
       Sophie Hochhäusl: Otto Neurath – City Planning: Proposing a Socio-Political Map for Modern Urbanism, Innsbruck University Press, 2011 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-902-81107-3. 
       Holt, Jim, "Positive Thinking" (review of Karl Sigmund, Exact Thinking in Demented Times: The Vienna Circle and the Epic Quest for the Foundations of Science, Basic Books, 449 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol. LXIV, no. 20 (21 December 2017), pp. 74–76. 
       Kraeutler, Hadwig. 2008. Otto Neurath. Museum and Exhibition Work – Spaces (Designed) for Communication. Frankfurt, Berlin, Bern, Bruxelles, New York, Oxford, Vienna, Peter Lang Internationaler Verlag der Wissenschaften. 
       Nemeth, E., and Stadler, F., eds., "Encyclopedia and Utopia: The Life and Work of Otto Neurath (1882–1945)." Vienna Circle Institute Yearbook, vol. 4. 
       O'Neill, John, 2003, "Unified science as political philosophy: positivism, pluralism and liberalism," Studies in History and Philosophy of Science. 
       O'Neill, John, 2002, "Socialist Calculation and Environmental Valuation: Money, Markets and Ecology," Science &amp; Society, LXVI/1. 
       Neurath, Otto, 1946, "From Hieroglyphs to Isotypes". 
       Symons, John – Pombo, Olga – Torres, Juan Manuel (eds.): Otto Neurath and the Unity of Science. (Logic, Epistemology, and the Unity of Science, 18.) Dordrecht: Springer, 2011. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-94-007-0142-7 
       Vossoughian, Nader. 2008. Otto Neurath: The Language of the Global Polis. NAi Publishers. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-90-5662-350-0 
       Sandner, Günther, 2014, Otto Neurath. Eine politische Biographie. Zsolnay, Vienna. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-552-05676-3. (German) 
       Danilo Zolo, 1990, Reflexive Epistemology and Social Complexity. The Philosophical Legacy of Otto Neurath, Dordrecht: Kluwer
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Otto Neurath
         
       
       
      
       Shalizi, C R, "Otto Neurath: 1882–1945". Includes references and links. 
       Gerd Arntz Web Archive with more than 500 Isotypes 
       Bibliography Pictorial Statistics 
       Mundaneum in Netherlands 
       Article discussing Gödel's Incomplete theorems as a refutation to Neurath and the Vienna Circle's logical Positivism 
       Austrian Museum for Social and Economic Affairs (Österreichisches Gesellschafts- und Wirtschaftsmuseum) 
       Guide to the Unity of Science Movement Records 1934-1968 at the University of Chicago Special Collections Research Center
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Israel 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Sweden 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Art research institutes
          
            
            
             RKD Artists (Netherlands) 
             Artist Names (Getty)
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Otto_Neurath&amp;oldid=1067716255"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1882 births
       1945 deaths
       20th-century Austrian philosophers
       Analytic philosophers
       Austrian emigrants to England
       Austro-Hungarian expatriates in Germany
       Austrian expatriates in the Netherlands
       Austrian Jews
       Austrian refugees
       Austrian socialists
       Austrian sociologists
       Encyclopedists
       Information graphic designers
       Jewish philosophers
       Jewish socialists
       Jews who immigrated to the United Kingdom to escape Nazism
       Logical positivism
       Marxian economists
       Marxist theorists
       People associated with the University of Reading
       People interned in the Isle of Man during World War II
       Philosophers of science
       Philosophers of social science
       Socialist economists
       Vienna Circle
       Information visualization experts
       Writers from Vienna
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: generic name
       Articles needing additional references from August 2021
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2016
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2016
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from September 2016
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2016
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with RKDartists identifiers
       Articles with ULAN identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       ქართული
       Kiswahili
       Latviešu
       Magyar
       مصرى
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 20:29&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
