
 
  
   
  William Playfair - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   William Playfair 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       British polymath
       
      
      
       For other people with the same name, see William Playfair (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           William Playfair
          
        
        
         Born
         (1759-09-22)September 22, 1759
          
           Benvie, Forfarshire, Scotland
          
        
        
         Died
         11 February 1823(1823-02-11) (aged&nbsp;63)
          
           London, England
          
        
        
         Nationality
         Scottish
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         inventor of statistical graphs, writer on political economy, and secret agent for Great Britain
        
        
         Family
         John Playfair (brother)James Playfair (brother)William Henry Playfair (nephew)
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Playfair's trade-balance time-series chart, published in his Commercial and Political Atlas, 1786
        
       
       
      William Playfair (22 September 1759 – 11 February 1823), a Scottish engineer and political economist, served as a secret agent on behalf of Great Britain during its war with France. The founder of graphical methods of statistics, Playfair invented several types of diagrams: in 1786 the line, area and bar chart of economic data, and in 1801 the pie chart and circle graph, used to show part-whole relations. As secret agent, Playfair reported on the French Revolution and organized a clandestine counterfeiting operation in 1793 to collapse the French currency.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Bar chart 
          2.2 Graphics 
          2.3 Counterfeiting operation 
          2.4 Playfair cycle 
           
        3 Works 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Playfair was born in 1759 in Scotland. He was the fourth son (named after his grandfather) of the Reverend James Playfair of the parish of Liff &amp; Benvie near the city of Dundee in Scotland; his notable brothers were architect James Playfair and mathematician John Playfair. His father died in 1772 when William was 13, leaving the eldest brother John to care for the family and his education. After his apprenticeship with Andrew Meikle, the inventor of the threshing machine, Playfair became draftsman and personal assistant to James Watt at the Boulton and Watt steam engine manufactory in Soho, Birmingham. 
      Playfair had a variety of careers. He was in turn a millwright, engineer, draftsman, accountant, inventor, silversmith, merchant, investment broker, economist, statistician, pamphleteer, translator, publicist, land speculator, convict, banker, ardent royalist, editor, blackmailer and journalist. On leaving Watt's company in 1782, he set up a silversmithing business and shop in London, which failed. In 1787 he moved to Paris, taking part in the storming of the Bastille two years later. After the French revolution, Playfair played a role in the Scioto Land sale to French settlers in the Ohio River Valley. He returned to London in 1793, where he opened a "security bank", which also failed. From 1775 he worked as a writer and pamphleteer and did some engineering work. In the 1790s, Playfair informed the British government on events in France and proposed various clandestine operations to bring down the French government. At the end of the 1790s he was imprisoned for debt in the Fleet Prison, being released in 1802.  
      Work 
      Ian Spence and Howard Wainer in 2001 describe Playfair as "engineer, political economist and scoundrel" while "Eminent Scotsmen" calls him an "ingenious mechanic and miscellaneous writer". It compares his career with the glorious one of his older brother John Playfair, the distinguished Edinburgh mathematics professor, and draws a moral about the importance of "steadiness and consistency of plan" as well as of "genius". Bruce Berkowitz in 2018 provides a detailed portrait of Playfair as an "ambitious, audacious, and woefully imperfect British patriot" who undertook the "most complex covert operation anyone had ever conceived".  
      Bar chart 
      Two decades before Playfair's first achievements, in 1765 Joseph Priestley had created the innovation of the first timeline charts, in which individual bars were used to visualise the life span of a person, and the whole can be used to compare the life spans of multiple persons. According to James R. Beniger and Robyn (1978) "Priestley's timelines proved a commercial success and a popular sensation, and went through dozens of editions".  
      
       
        
       
       
      These timelines directly inspired Wiliam Playfair's invention of the bar chart, which first appeared in his Commercial and Political Atlas, published in 1786. According to Beniger and Robyn (1978) "Playfair was driven to this invention by a lack of data. In his Atlas he had collected a series of 34 plates about the import and export from different countries over the years, which he presented as line graphs or surface charts: line graphs shaded or tinted between abscissa and function. Because Playfair lacked the necessary series data for Scotland, he graphed its trade data for a single year as a series of 34 bars, one for each of 17 trading partners".  
      
       
        
       
       
      In this bar chart Scotland's imports and exports from and to 17 countries in 1781 are represented. "This bar chart was the first quantitative graphical form that did not locate data either in space, as had coordinates and tables, or time, as had Priestley's timelines. It constitutes a pure solution to the problem of discrete quantitative comparison". 
      The idea of representing data as a series of bars had earlier (14th century) been published by Jacobus de Sancto Martino and attributed to Nicole Oresme. Oresme used the bars to generate a graph of velocity against continuously varying time. Playfair's use of bars was to generate a chart of discrete measurements.  
      Graphics 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Pie chart from Playfair's Statistical Breviary (1801), showing the proportions of the Turkish Empire located in Asia, Europe and Africa before 1789
        
       
       
      Playfair, who argued that charts communicated better than tables of data, has been credited with inventing the line, bar, area, and pie charts. His time-series plots are still presented as models of clarity. 
      Playfair first published The Commercial and Political Atlas in London in 1786. It contained 43 time-series plots and one bar chart, a form apparently introduced in this work. It has been described as the first major work to contain statistical graphs. 
      Playfair's Statistical Breviary, published in London in 1801, contains what is generally credited as the first pie chart. 
      From 1809 until 1811, he published the massive "British Family Antiquity, Illustrative of the Origin and Progress of the Rank, honours and personal merit of the nobility of the United Kingdom. Accompanied with an Elegant Set of Chronological Charts." The work was 9 large volumes in 11 parts; Volume six contained a suite of 12 plates of which 10 are in two states, coloured and uncoloured, and 9 large folding tables, partly hand coloured. This was an important work on genealogy published in a very limited edition. In it, Playfair sought to show the true character and heroism of the British nobility and that the Monarchy, particularly the British Monarchy, is the true defender of liberty. The volumes are separated into the peerage and baronetage of England, Scotland and Ireland.  
      Counterfeiting operation 
      In 1793 Playfair as secret agent devised a clandestine plan that he presented to Henry Dundas, who was Home Secretary soon to become Britain's Secretary of State for War. Playfair proposed to "fabricate one hundred millions of assignats (the French currency) and spread them in France by every means in my power." He saw the counterfeiting plan as the lesser of two evils: "That there are two ways of combatting the French nation the forces of which are measured by men and money. Their assignats are their money and it is better to destroy this paper founded upon an iniquitous extortion and a villainous deception than to shed the blood of men." Playfair forged the assignats at Haughton Castle in Northumberland and distributed them according to an elaborate plan. The plan apparently worked: by 1795 the French assignat had become worthless and the ensuing chaos undermined the French government. Playfair never told anyone about the operation.  
      Playfair cycle 
      The following quotation, known as the "Playfair cycle," has achieved notoriety as it pertains to the "Tytler cycle":  
      
      
       :...wealth and power have never been long permanent in any place. 
       
        
         ...they travel over the face of the earth,
         
        
         something like a caravan of merchants.
         
        
         On their arrival, every thing is found green and fresh;
         
        
         while they remain all is bustle and abundance,
         
        
         and, when gone, all is left trampled down, barren, and bare.
        
       
       
      Works 
      
       1785. The Increase of Manufactures, Commerce, and Finance, with the Extension of Civil Liberty, Proposed in Regulations for the Interest of Money. London: G.J. &amp; J. Robinson. 
       1786. The Commercial and Political Atlas: Representing, by Means of Stained Copper-Plate Charts, the Progress of the Commerce, Revenues, Expenditure and Debts of England during the Whole of the Eighteenth Century. 
       1787. Joseph and Benjamin, a Conversation Translated from a French Manuscript. London: J. Murray. 
       1793. Thoughts on the Present State of French Politics, and the Necessity and Policy of Diminishing France, for Her Internal Peace, and to Secure the Tranquillity of Europe. London: J. Stockdale. 
       1793. A general view of the actual force and resources of France, in January, M. DCC. XCIII: to which is added, a table, shewing the depreciation of assignats, arising from their increase in quantity. J. Stockdale. 
       1796. The History of Jacobinism, Its Crimes, Cruelties and Perfidies: Comprising an Inquiry into the Manner of Disseminating, under the Appearance of Philosophy and Virtue, Principles which are Equally Subversive of Order, Virtue, Religion, Liberty and Happiness. Vol. I.. Philadelphia: W. Cobbett. 
       1796. For the Use of the Enemies of England, a Real Statement of the Finances and Resources of Great Britain 
       1798. Lineal arithmetic, Applied to Shew the Progress of the Commerce and Revenue of England During the Present Century. A. Paris. 
       1799. Stricture on the Asiatic Establishments of Great Britain, With a View to an Enquiry into the True Interests of the East India Company. Bunney &amp; Gold. 
       1801. Statistical Breviary; Shewing, on a Principle Entirely New, the Resources of Every State and Kingdom in Europe. London: Wallis. 
       1805. An Inquiry into the Permanent Causes of the Decline and Fall of Powerful and Wealthy Nations. London: Greenland &amp; Norris. 
       1805. European commerce, shewing new and secure channels of trade with the continent of Europe... 
       1805. Statistical Account of the United States of America by D. F. Donnant. London: J. Whiting. William Playfair, Trans. 
       1807. European Commerce, Shewing New and Secure Channels of Trade with the Continent of Europe. Vol. I.. Philadelphia: J. Humphreys. 
       1808. Inevitable Consequences of a Reform in Parliament 
       1809. A Fair and Candid Address to the Nobility and Baronets of the United Kingdom; Accompanied with Illustrations and Proofs of the Advantage of Hereditary Rank and Title in a Free Country 
       1811. British Family Antiquity: Index to the 9 Volumes of William Playfair's Family Antiquity of the British Nobility 
       1813. Outlines of a Plan for a New and Solid Balance of Power in Europe. J. Stockdale. 
       1814. Political Portraits in This New Æra, Vol. II . London: C. Chapple. 
       1816. Supplementary Volume to Political Portraits in This New Æra. London: C. Chapple. 
       1818. The History of England, from the Revolution in 1688 to the Death of George II. Vol. II. R. Scholey. 
       1819. France as it Is, Not Lady Morgan's France, Vol. I. London: C. Chapple. 
       1820. France as it Is, Not Lady Morgan's France, Vol. II. London: C. Chapple.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c d e Berkowitz, Bruce (2018). Playfair: The True Story of the British Secret Agent Who Changed How We See the World. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-942695-04-2.  
        ^ Paul J. FitzPatrick (1960). "Leading British Statisticians of the Nineteenth Century". In: Journal of the American Statistical Association, Vol. 55, No. 289 (Mar. 1960), pp. 38–70.  
        ^ Michael Friendly (2008). "Milestones in the history of thematic cartography, statistical graphics, and data visualization". pp 13–14. Retrieved 7 July 2008.  
        ^ a b Ian Spence and Howard Wainer (1997). "Who Was Playfair?". In: Chance 10, p. 35–37.  
        ^ Ian Spence and Howard Wainer (2001). "William Playfair". In: Statisticians of the Centuries. C.C. Heyde and E. Seneta (eds.) New York: Springer. pp. 105–110.  
        ^ a b c James R. Beniger and Dorothy L. Robyn (1978). "Quantitative graphics in statistics: A brief history". In: The American Statistician. 32: pp. 1–11.  
        ^ 
          Der, Geoff; Everitt, Brian S. (2014). A Handbook of Statistical Graphics Using SAS ODS. Chapman and Hall - CRC. p.&nbsp;4. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-584-88784-3. William Playfair, for example, is often credited with inventing the bar chart (see Chapter 3) in the last part of the 18th century, although a Frenchman, Nicole Oresme, used a bar chart in a 14th century publication, The Latitude of Forms to plot the velocity of a constantly accelerating object against time. But it was Playfair who popularized the idea of graphic depiction of quantitative information.  
        ^ Edward R. Tufte (2001). The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. Cheshire, CT: Graphics Press, p. 44.  
        ^ Ian Spence (2005). "No Humble Pie: The Origins and Usage of a statistical Chart". In: Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics. Winter 2005, 30 (4), 353–368.  
        ^ 
          Playfair, William; Wainer, Howard; Spence, Ian (2005). Playfair's Commercial and Political Atlas and Statistical Breviary. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780521855549.  
        ^ William Playfair (1807). An Inquiry into the Permanent Causes of the Decline and Fall of Powerful and Wealthy Nations, p. 102.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to William Playfair.
         
       
       
      
       Playfair, William (1759–1823) at oxforddnb.com 
       William PLAYFAIR b. 22 September 1759 - d. 11 February 1823 at statprob.com 
       "Biographical Dictionary of Eminent Scotsmen" 
       Works by William Playfair at Project Gutenberg 
       Works by or about William Playfair at Internet Archive
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=William_Playfair&amp;oldid=1063557173"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1759 births
       1823 deaths
       Information graphic designers
       Information visualization experts
       Scottish engineers
       Scottish statisticians
       Scottish economists
       Statistical charts and diagrams
       Millwrights
       British spies
       People imprisoned for debt
       People from Birmingham, West Midlands
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       EngvarB from August 2014
       Use dmy dates from August 2014
       Pages using infobox person with unknown empty parameters
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from January 2020
       Commons link is on Wikidata
       Articles with Project Gutenberg links
       Articles with Internet Archive links
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       Magyar
       Malagasy
       مصرى
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 3 January 2022, at 17:55&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
