
 
  
   
  Adolphe Quetelet - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Adolphe Quetelet 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Belgian astronomer, mathematician, and sociologist
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Adolphe Quetelet
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet
          (1796-02-22)22 February 1796
          
           Ghent, French Republic
           (now Ghent, Belgium)
          
        
        
         Died
         17 February 1874(1874-02-17) (aged&nbsp;77)
          
           Brussels, Belgium
          
        
        
         Nationality
         Belgian
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         University of Ghent
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         contributions to social physics
        
        
         Awards
         ForMemRS (1839)
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         astronomermathematicianstatisticiansociologist
        
        
         Institutions
         Brussels Observatory
        
        
         Influences
         Joseph FourierPierre-Simon Laplace
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet FRSF or FRSE (French:&nbsp; (listen); 22 February 1796 – 17 February 1874) was a Belgian astronomer, mathematician, statistician and sociologist who founded and directed the Brussels Observatory and was influential in introducing statistical methods to the social sciences. His name is sometimes spelled with an accent as Quételet. 
      He also founded the science of anthropometry and developed the body mass index (BMI) scale, originally called the Quetelet Index. His work on measuring human characteristic to determine the ideal l’homme moyen ("the average man"), played a key role in the origins of eugenics.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Social physics 
          2.2 Criminology 
          2.3 Anthropometry 
           
        3 Awards and honours 
        4 Publications 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        
       
      Biography 
      Adolphe was born in Ghent (which, at the time was a part of the new French Republic). He was the son of François-Augustin-Jacques-Henri Quetelet, a Frenchman and Anne Françoise Vandervelde, a Flemish woman. His father was born at Ham, Picardy, and being of a somewhat adventurous spirit, he crossed the English Channel and became both a British citizen and the secretary of a Scottish nobleman. In that capacity, he traveled with his employer on the Continent, particularly spending time in Italy. At about 31, he settled in Ghent and was employed by the city, where Adolphe was born, the fifth of nine children, several of whom died in childhood. 
      Francois died when Adolphe was only seven years old. Adolphe studied at the Ghent Lycée, where he afterwards started teaching mathematics in 1815 at the age of 19. In 1819, he moved to the Athenaeum in Brussels and in the same year he completed his dissertation (De quibusdam locis geometricis, necnon de curva focal – Of some new properties of the focal distance and some other curves). 
      Quetelet received a doctorate in mathematics in 1819 from the University of Ghent. Shortly thereafter, the young man set out to convince government officials and private donors to build an astronomical observatory in Brussels; he succeeded in 1828. He became a member of the Royal Academy in 1820. He lectured at the museum for sciences and letters and at the Belgian Military School. In 1825, he became a correspondent of the Royal Institute of the Netherlands, in 1827 he became a member. In 1839, he was elected as a member of the American Philosophical Society. From 1841 to 1851, he was a supernumerary associate in the Institute, and when it became Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences he became foreign member. In 1850, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 
      Quetelet also founded several statistical journals and societies, and was especially interested in creating international cooperation among statisticians. He encouraged the creation of a statistical section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BA), which later became the Royal Statistical Society, of which he became the first overseas member. In 1853 he chaired both the International Maritime Conference and the First International Statistical Congress. He was a founding member of the first Société des douze. 
      In 1855, Quetelet suffered from apoplexy, which diminished but did not end his scientific activity. 
      He died in Brussels on 17 February 1874, and is buried in the Brussels Cemetery. 
      In 1825, he married Cécile-Virginie Curtet.  
      Work 
      His scientific research encompassed a wide range of different scientific disciplines: meteorology, astronomy, mathematics, statistics, demography, sociology, criminology and history of science. He made significant contributions to scientific development, but he also wrote several monographs directed to the general public. He founded the Royal Observatory of Belgium, founded or co-founded several national and international statistical societies and scientific journals, and presided over the first series of the International Statistical Congresses. Quetelet was a liberal and an anticlerical, but not an atheist or materialist nor a socialist.  
      Social physics 
      The new science of probability and statistics was mainly used in astronomy at the time, where it was essential to account for measurement errors around means. This was done using the method of least squares. Quetelet was among the first to apply statistics to social science, planning what he called "social physics". He was keenly aware of the overwhelming complexity of social phenomena, and the many variables that needed measurement. His goal was to understand the statistical laws underlying such phenomena as crime rates, marriage rates or suicide rates. He wanted to explain the values of these variables by other social factors. These ideas were rather controversial among other scientists at the time who held that it contradicted the concept of freedom of choice. 
      His most influential book was Sur l'homme et le développement de ses facultés, ou Essai de physique sociale, published in 1835 (In English translation, it is titled Treatise on Man, but a literal translation would be "On Man and the Development of his Faculties, or Essays on Social Physics"). In it, he outlines the project of a social physics and describes his concept of the "average man" (l'homme moyen) who is characterized by the mean values of measured variables that follow a normal distribution. He collected data about many such variables. Quetelet wrote about these values as "ideals" with deviations from them as being less than or more than ideal. He saw the average body as an ideal beauty and something to be desired and his work was influential on Francis Galton who coined the term eugenics. 
      Quetelet's student Pierre François Verhulst developed the logistic function in the 1830s as a model of population growth; see Logistic function §&nbsp;History for details. 
      When Auguste Comte discovered that Quetelet had appropriated the term 'social physics', which Comte had originally introduced, Comte found it necessary to invent the term 'sociologie' (sociology) because he disagreed with Quetelet's notion that a theory of society could be derived from a collection of statistics. 
      Adolphe Quetelet also had a significant influence on Florence Nightingale who shared with him a religious view of statistics which saw understanding statistics as revealing the work of God in addition to statistics being a force of good administration. Nightingale met Quetelet in person at the 1860 International Statistical Congress in London, and they corresponded for years afterwards.  
      Criminology 
      Quetelet was an influential figure in criminology. Along with Andre-Michel Guerry, he helped to establish the cartographic school and positivist schools of criminology which made extensive use of statistical techniques. Through statistical analysis, Quetelet gained insight into the relationships between crime and other social factors. Among his findings were strong relationships between age and crime, as well as gender and crime. Other influential factors he found included climate, poverty, education, and alcohol consumption, with his research findings published in Of the Development of the Propensity to Crime.  
      Anthropometry 
      In his 1835 text on social physics, in which he presented his theory of human variance around the average, with human traits being distributed according to a normal curve, he proposed that normal variation provided a basis for the idea that populations produce sufficient variation for artificial or natural selection to operate. 
      In terms of influence over later public health agendas, one of Quetelet's lasting legacies was the establishment of a simple measure for classifying people's weight relative to an ideal for their height. His proposal, the body mass index (or Quetelet index), has endured with minor variations to the present day. Anthropometric data is used in modern applications and referenced in the development of every consumer-based product.  
      Awards and honours 
      Quetelet was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 1839. 
      The asteroid 1239 Queteleta is named after him. The title of Quetelet professor at Columbia University is awarded in his name.  
      Publications 
      
       1823. Relation d'un voyage fait à la grotte de Han au mois d'août 1822'. 'With M.M. Kickx. 
       1827. Recherches sur la population, les naissances, les décès, les prisons, les dépôts de mendicité, etc., dans le royaume des Pays-Bas. 
       1829. Recherches statistiques sur le royaume des Pays-Bas. 
       1831. The Propensity to Crime. 
       1834. Astronomie élémentaire. 
       1835. Sur l'homme et le développement de ses facultés, ou Essai de physique sociale. 2 volumes. 
       1838. De l'influence des saisons sur la mortalité aux différens âges dans la Belgique. 
       1839. Catalogue des principales apparitions d'étoiles filantes. 
       1842. A Treatise on Man and the Development of His Faculties. 
       1843. Sur l'emploi de la boussole dans les mines. 
       1845–1851. Sur le climat de la Belgique. 2 volumes. 
       1848. Du système social et des lois qui le régissent. 
       1848. Sur la statistique morale et les principes qui doivent en former la base. 
       1850. Mémoire sur les lois des naissances et de la mortalité à Bruxelles. 
       1853. Mémoire sur les variations périodiques et non périodiques de la température, d'après les observations faites, pendant vingt ans, à l'observatoire royal de Bruxelles. 
       1864. Histoire des sciences mathématiques et physiques chez les Belges. 
       1867. Météorologie de la Belgique comparée à celle du globe. 
       1867. Sciences mathématiques et physiques au commencement du XIXe siècle. 
       1869. Sur la physique du globe en Belgique. 
       1870. Anthropométrie, ou Mesure des différentes facultés de l'homme.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c "Fellows of the Royal Society". London: Royal Society. Archived from the original on 16 March 2015.  
        ^ a b "Quetelet, Adolphe": entry in The Britannica Guide to Statistics and Probability, edited by Erik Gregersen  
        ^ 
          Tylor, Edward Burnett (May 1872). "Quetelet on the Science of Man"&nbsp;. Popular Science Monthly. Vol.&nbsp;1. ISSN&nbsp;0161-7370 – via Wikisource.&nbsp;  
        ^ 
          O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Adolphe Quetelet", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews  
        ^ 
          Biographical Index of Former Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 1783–2002 (PDF). The Royal Society of Edinburgh. July 2006. ISBN&nbsp;0-902-198-84-X. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 27 January 2018.  
        ^ a b  
          Grue; Heiberg (2006). "Notes on the History of Normality – Reflections on the Work of Quetelet and Galton". Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research. 8 (4): 232–246. doi:10.1080/15017410600608491.  
        ^ a b  
          Kubergovic (2013). "Quetelet, Adolphe". Eugenics Archive. Retrieved 31 January 2022.  
        ^ a b  
          Beirne (March 1987). "Adolphe Quetelet and the Origins of Positivist Criminology". American Journal of Sociology. 92 (5): 1140–69. doi:10.1086/228630.  
        ^ 
          "APS Member History". search.amphilsoc.org. Retrieved 9 April 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet (1796–1874)". Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. Retrieved 20 July 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 15 June 2018. Retrieved 15 June 2018.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ Cramer 2002, pp.&nbsp;3–5.  
        ^ 
          Jahoda, Gustav (4 September 2015). "Quetelet and the emergence of the behavioral sciences". SpringerPlus. 4 (1): 473. doi:10.1186/s40064-015-1261-7. PMC&nbsp;4559562. PMID&nbsp;26361574.  
        ^ Piers Beirne (1987). "Adolphe Quetelet and the Origins of Positivist Criminology". In; American Journal of Sociology 92(5): pp. 1140–1169.  
        ^ 
          Eiseley, Loren (1961). Darwin's Century. Anchor Books (Doubleday). p.&nbsp;227.  
        ^ Garabed Eknoyan (2008). "Adolphe Quetelet (1796–1874) – the average man and indices of obesity". In: Nephrol. Dial. Transplant. 23 (1): 47–51.  
       
       
      Further reading 
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has original works written by or about:Adolphe Quetelet
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Adolphe Quetelet
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Adolphe Quetelet.
         
       
       
      
       Kevin Donnelly (2015). Adolphe Quetelet, Social Physics and the Average Men of Science, 1796–1874. University of Pittsburgh Press. 
       Ian Hacking (1990). The Taming of Chance. Cambridge University Press, chapters 13–15. 
       Alain Desrosières (1998). The Politics of Large Numbers: A History of Statistical Reasoning. Harvard University Press, chapter 3. 
       Stephen Stigler (1999). Statistics on the Table. Harvard University Press, chapter 2. 
       Philip Ball (2005). Critical Mass: How One Thing Leads to Another. Arrow Books 2005, chapter 3. 
       Fabien Locher (2007). "The observatory, the land-based ship and the crusades: earth sciences in european context, 1830–1850", British Journal for History of Science, 40(4), 2007, pp.&nbsp;491–504 (On the leading role of Adolphe Quetelet in the fields of meteorology and geomagnetism in early nineteenth-century).
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Fellows of the Royal Society elected in 1839
           
         
         
          Fellows
          
            
            
             Thomas Dyke Acland 
             George&nbsp;Barker 
             Beriah Botfield 
             Robert Carrington 
             Arthur Conolly 
             Charles Darwin 
             Edward Davies&nbsp;Davenport 
             Henry Mangles Denham 
             Richard&nbsp;Drew 
             Henry&nbsp;Drummond 
             Arthur Farre 
             Thomas William&nbsp;Fletcher 
             William James&nbsp;Frodsham 
             Thomas Gaskin 
             George Godwin 
             John T. Graves 
             Edwin Guest 
             George Gulliver 
             James Halliwell-Phillipps 
             Peter&nbsp;Hardy 
             James&nbsp;Heywood 
             John&nbsp;Hilton 
             John&nbsp;Hogg 
             Gilbert Wakefield&nbsp;Mackmurdo 
             Samuel Roffey Maitland 
             Henry&nbsp;Moseley 
             H. Alexander&nbsp;Ormsby 
             William&nbsp;Reid 
             Robert&nbsp;Rigg 
             John&nbsp;Rogers 
             George Leith Roupell 
             William Sharpey 
             Clement Tudway&nbsp;Swanston 
             James Joseph Sylvester 
             Charles Thorp 
             Charles&nbsp;Turnor 
             John Wesley&nbsp;Williams 
             James Yates
             
           
         
         
          Foreign
          
            
            
             Christopher Hansteen 
             Macedonio Melloni 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             Félix Savart
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             Italy 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Korea 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
              
               2
               
             Sweden 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Biographical dictionaries
          
            
            
             Netherlands
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             International Plant Names Index
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Adolphe_Quetelet&amp;oldid=1069036882"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1796 births
       1874 deaths
       19th-century Belgian astronomers
       19th-century Belgian mathematicians
       Belgian sociologists
       Belgian statisticians
       Belgian criminologists
       Ghent University alumni
       Members of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences
       Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
       Corresponding members of the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences
       Information graphic designers
       Information visualization experts
       Foreign Members of the Royal Society
       Burials at Brussels Cemetery
       Scientists from Ghent
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from March 2020
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with hAudio microformats
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with ICCU identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with BPN identifiers
       Articles with Botanist identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 25 elements
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikispecies
       Wikiquote
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       تۆرکجه
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Lëtzebuergesch
       Magyar
       مصرى
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Occitan
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       Walon
       吴语
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 January 2022, at 10:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
