
 
  
   
  Sheelagh Carpendale - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Sheelagh Carpendale 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Canadian computer scientist
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.Find sources:&nbsp;"Sheelagh Carpendale"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Sheelagh Carpendale
          
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Montreal, Quebec, Canada
          
        
        
         Nationality
         Canada
        
        
         Citizenship
         Canada
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Simon Fraser University (PhD)
        
        
         Awards
         
           
           
            2018&nbsp;&nbsp;ACM CHI Academy 
            2018&nbsp;&nbsp;IEEE VGTC Visualization Career Award
            
          
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer Science (Human-Computer Interaction)
        
        
         Institutions
         
           
           
            Simon Fraser University 
            University of Calgary
            
          
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         F. D. Fracchia, T. Shermer, A. Liestman
        
        
          
        
        
         Website
         
          
           www.cs.sfu.ca/~sheelagh/
          
        
       
       
      Sheelagh Carpendale is a Canadian artist and computer scientist working in the field of Information Visualization and Human-Computer Interaction.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Profession 
        2 College 
        3 Recognition 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Profession 
      Carpendale is a Professor at the School of Computing Science at Simon Fraser University where she holds an NSERC/SMART Industrial Research Chair in Interactive Technologies. She was previously a professor at University of Calgary where she held a Canada Research Chair in Information Visualization and an NSERC/AITF/SMART Industrial Research Chair in Interactive Technologies. She directs the Innovations in Visualization (InnoVis.) research group. At University of Calgary, she founded the interdisciplinary graduate group, Computational Media Design. Her research on information visualization, large interactive displays, and new media art draws on her dual background in Computer Science (BSc. and Ph.D. Simon Fraser University) and Visual Arts (Sheridan College, School of Design and Emily Carr, College of Art).  
      College 
      Carpendale left high school with science scholarships but instead initially opted for fine arts, attending Sheridan College, School of Design and Emily Carr, Institute of Art and Design. For ten years she worked professionally in the arts. During this time she was part of establishing the Harbourfront Arts Centre at York Quay, in Toronto. Subsequently, she has reconnected with her interests in math and science and studied computer science at Simon Fraser University. Her research expertise focuses on information visualization, interaction design, and qualitative empirical work and includes such projects as: visualizing ecological dynamics, using visualization to integrate scientific results and sounds from Antarctica to create a tool to inspire musical composition, visualizing uncertainty, visualizing social activities, and multi-touch and tabletop interaction. She has found the combined visual arts and computer science background invaluable in her research.  
      Recognition 
      She is the recipient of several major awards including the British Academy of Film and Television Arts Award (BAFTA) for Off-line Learning as well as academic and industrial grants from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council, Intel Inc., Canada Foundation for Innovation, and Forest Renewal British Columbia. In 2012 she was awarded the NSERC E.W.R. Steacie Memorial Fellowship, which is given to the six top scientists nationally across all NSERC research areas and within 12 years of their PhD. She will also be featured in Canada's Science, Technology and Innovation Council State of the Nation 2012 report. In 2013, she was awarded the Canadian Human Computer Communications Society (CHCCS) Achievement Award, which is presented periodically to a Canadian researcher who has made a substantial contribution to the fields of computer graphics, visualization, or human- computer interaction. She was elected to the CHI Academy and received the IEEE VGTC Visualization Career Award in 2018. In 2021, she was inducted as a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, a top honour for Canadian researchers.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^  InnoVis  
         ^  Computational Media Design  
         ^ Emily Carr University of Art and Design Emily Carr  
         ^  NSERC Steacie Fellowship  
         ^  Canadian Human Computer Communications Society (CHCCS) Achievement Award  
         ^ Award Recipients, ACM SIGCHI, retrieved 2018-10-18  
         ^ 
           The 2018 Visualization Career Award, IEEE Computer Society, retrieved 2020-06-05  
         ^ 
           Royal Society of Canada Class of 2021 (PDF), Royal Society Of Canada, retrieved 2021-11-19  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Sheelagh Carpendale's website
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ORCID 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Czech Republic 
             Korea
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             DBLP (computer science)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sheelagh_Carpendale&amp;oldid=1064103400"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Living people
       Canadian computer scientists
       Canadian women computer scientists
       Human–computer interaction researchers
       Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       BLP articles lacking sources from August 2013
       All BLP articles lacking sources
       Articles with hCards
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013
       Articles with ORCID identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Year of birth missing (living people)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 January 2022, at 15:57&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
