
 
  
   
  Lawrence J. Rosenblum - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American mathematician
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Larry Rosenblum, National Science Foundation.
        
       
       
      Lawrence Jay Rosenblum (born 1944) is an American mathematician, and Program Director for Graphics and Visualization at the National Science Foundation.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Work 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 The emergence of scientific visualization 
          2.2 Research trends in Visualization 
          2.3 Foundations of Data and Visual Analytics 
           
        3 Publications 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Work 
      Rosenblum received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from the Ohio State University in 1971. From 1992 to 1994, he was Liaison Scientist for Computer Science at the Office of Naval Research European Office. From 1994 he has been Director of Virtual Reality (VR) Systems and Research at the Information Technology Division of the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and Program Officer for Visualization and Computer Graphics at the Office of Naval Research (ONR) for ten years. Since 2004 he is Program Director for Graphics and Visualization at the National Science Foundation. 
      Rosenblum is on the editorial boards of IEEE CG&amp;A and Virtual Reality. He has guest edited special issues/sections of IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications (CG&amp;A), Computer, and Presence on visualization, VR, and ARHe. He also has served on both the editorial board and advisory board of the IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics. He was the elected Chairman of the IEEE Technical Committee on Computer Graphics from 1994–1996 and is currently Director of the IEEE Visualization and Graphics Technical Committee. 
      Rosenblum received an IEEE Outstanding Contribution Certificate for initiating and co-founding the  IEEE Visualization conference. He serves on the program, conference, and steering committees of numerous international conferences. He is a senior member of the IEEE and a member of the IEEE Computer Society, ACM, and Siggraph.  
      Work 
      Rosenblum's research interests include mobile augmented reality (AR), scientific and uncertainty visualization, VR displays, and applications of VR/AR systems. His research group has produced advances in mobile augmented reality (AR), scientific and uncertainty visualization, VR displays, applications of VR/AR systems, and understanding human performance in graphics systems.  
      The emergence of scientific visualization 
      In the 1990s scientific visualization developed as an emerging research discipline. According to Rosenblum (1994) "new algorithms are just beginning to effectively handle the recurring scientific problem of data collected at nonuniform intervals. Volume visualization today is being extended from examining scientific data to reconstructing scattered data and representing geometrical objects without mathematically describing surfaces. Fluid dynamics visualization affects numerous scientific and engineering disciplines. It has taken its place with molecular modeling, imaging remote-sensing data, and medical imaging as a domain-specific visualization research area". 
      Much of the progress in the field of scientific modeling, according to Rosenblum (1994), came "from using algorithms with roots in both computer graphics and computer vision. One important research thread has been the topological representation of important features. Volume and hybrid visualization now produce 3D animations of complex flows. However, while impressive 3D visualizations have been generated for scalar parameters associated with fluid dynamics, vector and especially tensor portrayal has proven more difficult. Seminal methods have appeared, but much remains to do. Great strides have also occurred in visualization systems. The area of automated selection of visualizations especially requires more work. Nonetheless, the situation has much improved, with these tools increasingly accessible to scientists and engineers".  
      Research trends in Visualization 
      The field of visualization has undergone considerable changes since its founding in the late 1980s. From its origins in scientific visualization, new areas have arisen in the new Millennium . These include information visualization and, more recently, mobile visualization including location-aware computing, and visual analytics. Several new trends are emerging. The most important is the fusion of visualization techniques with other areas such as computer vision, data mining and data bases to promote broad-based advances. Another trend, which has not been well met to date by visualization researchers, is for algorithms to be combined with usability studies to assure that techniques and systems are well designed and that their value is quantified. This presentation will discuss current research trends in visualization as well as briefly discuss trends in U.S. research funding.  
      Foundations of Data and Visual Analytics 
      Rosenblum current program responsibilities at the NSF in 2008 is "Foundations of Data and Visual Analytics (FODAVA)" project. Those involved with science, engineering, commerce, health, and national security all increasingly face the challenge of synthesizing information and deriving insight from massive, dynamic, ambiguous and possibly conflicting digital data. The goal of collecting and examining these data is not to merely acquire information, but to derive increased understanding from it and to facilitate effective decision-making. 
      To capitalize on the opportunities provided by these data sets, a new, interdisciplinary field of science is emerging called "Data and Visual Analytics", which is defined as the science of analytical reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces. Data and Visual Analytics requires interdisciplinary science, going beyond traditional scientific and information visualization to include statistics, mathematics, knowledge representation, management and discovery technologies, cognitive and perceptual sciences, decision sciences, and more. This solicitation is concerned only with a subset of the overall problem, namely the creation of the mathematical and computational sciences foundations required to transform data in ways that permit visual-based understanding. 
      To facilitate visual-based data exploration, it is necessary to discover new algorithms that will represent and transform all types of digital data into mathematical formulations and computational models that will subsequently enable efficient, effective visualization and analytic reasoning techniques.  
      Publications 
      Rosenblum has published over eighty scientific articles and has edited two books, including Scientific Visualization: Advances &amp; Challenges.  
      
       1990. Visualization in scientific computing. Edited with Gregory M. Nielson and Bruce Shriver. 
       1991. Visualization '91, October 22–25, 1991, San Diego, California&nbsp;: proceedings / sponsored by IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Computer Graphics,in cooperation with ACM/SIGGRAPH. Edited with Gregory M. Nielson. 
       1994. Scientific Visualization&nbsp;: Advances and challenges. Academic Press. 
       1999. IEEE virtual reality&nbsp;: March 13–17, 1999, Houston, Texas&nbsp;: proceedings. Edited with Peter Astheimer, and Detlef Teichmann&nbsp;; sponsored by IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Visualization and Graphics.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Lawrence J. Rosenblum at the Mathematics Genealogy Project  
         ^ a b c d CGI 05 announces two conference panels Archived 2011-07-16 at the Wayback Machine Wednesday, June 22, 2005. Retrieved 8 July 2008.  
         ^ a b Lawrence J. Rosenblum (1994). "Research issues in scientific visualization". In: Computer Graphics and Applications, IEEE. Volume 14, Issue 2, March 1994 Page(s):61 - 63.  
         ^ a b c Foundations of Data and Visual Analytics (FODAVA) Program SYNOPSIS. Last Updated: November 1, 2007. Retrieved 8 July 2008.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Lawrence Rosenblum homepage at the NSF.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Mathematics Genealogy Project
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lawrence_J._Rosenblum&amp;oldid=1063249912"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1949 births
       20th-century American mathematicians
       21st-century American mathematicians
       Living people
       Information visualization experts
       United States National Science Foundation officials
       Ohio State University Graduate School alumni
       Senior Members of the IEEE
       Virtual reality pioneers
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with MGP identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 January 2022, at 01:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
