
 
  
   
  Arthur H. Robinson - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Arthur H. Robinson 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
        
      
       American geographer and cartographer
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Arthur H. Robinson
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
         (1915-01-05)January 5, 1915
          
           Montreal, Quebec, Canada
          
        
        
         Died
         October 10, 2004(2004-10-10) (aged&nbsp;89)
          
           Madison, Wisconsin, U.S.
          
        
       
       
      Arthur H. Robinson (January 5, 1915 – October 10, 2004) was an American geographer and cartographer, who was professor in the Geography Department at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1947 until he retired in 1980. He was a prolific writer and influential philosopher on cartography, and one of his most notable accomplishments is the Robinson projection of 1961.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Personal life 
        3 Work 
          
          3.1 Robinson projection 
           
        4 See also 
        5 Publications 
        6 References 
        
       
      Biography 
      Arthur H. Robinson was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to American parents, James Howard Robinson and Elizabeth (Peavey) Robinson. He lived in Great Britain while he was young, and received his post-secondary education in the United States. His undergraduate work was done at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, obtaining a B.A. degree in 1936. During his undergraduate work he became especially interested in cartography, and received some practice drawing maps for faculty textbooks while earning a master's degree in geography from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1938, and he earned his Ph.D. degree from Ohio State University in 1947. While at Ohio State, Robinson worked to solve problems in the Map communication model. 
      During World War II, Robinson served as director of the map division of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). In 1941, when Robinson joined OSS, there were no cartographers as we know them today. Robinson engaged geographers with some interest in mapping and the group developed their techniques on the job. Led by Robinson, the OSS cartographers designed a massive 50-inch globe for President Franklin Roosevelt, which became known as "The President's Globe." A copy of the globe was given to Winston Churchill as a gift and a third globe was provided for the use of George Marshall and Henry Stimson. While serving with the OSS, Robinson oversaw the creation of 5,000 hand-drawn maps and attended the Allied conferences at Quebec and Cairo in 1943 and in 1944, he served as chief U.S. map officer. For his efforts Robinson received the Legion of Merit from the United States Army in 1946.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         President Roosevelt studies the 50-inch globe produced by Arthur Robinson and the OSS
        
       
       
      In 1947 Robinson subsequently joined the geography department at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he spent his career in academia and research. Robinson sought to establish cartography as a recognized discipline and ultimately the university granted both undergraduate and master's degrees in cartography. The Wisconsin cartography program has conferred more than 100 masters and 20 doctoral degrees, and many of the doctoral recipients created respected cartography programs at other universities. Today the map library at the University of Wisconsin–Madison is named in his honor.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Detail of the cartouche on "The President's Globe"
        
       
       
      Robinson served as president of the International Cartographic Association (1972–76), and as vice president and president of the Association of American Geographers. He was awarded the Carl Mannerfelt Gold Medal by the International Cartographic Association in 1980.  
      Personal life 
      Robinson married Mary Elizabeth Coffin (1910–-1992), daughter of John R. Coffin and Bessie Morris Coffin, on December 23, 1938, in Franklin County, Ohio. They had two children, a son and a daughter. After the death of his first wife, Robinson remarried in 1993. His second wife was Martha Elizabeth Rodabaugh Phillips (1914–2010), a widow, with whom he had attended school in Oxford, Ohio.  
      Work 
      Robinson was a prolific writer and influential philosopher on cartography: According to Robinson,“the aim of cartographic design is to present the geographical data in such a fashion that the map, as a whole, appears as an integrated unit and so that each item included is clear, legible, and neither more nor less prominent than it should be.” Like Richard Edes Harrison, another successful wartime cartographer, Robinson warned against the dangers of blindly accepting conventions in map design, such as always putting north at the top of the map. Robinson wrote that neither logic nor educational value required placing north at the top of the map.  
      
       In The Look of Maps (1952) which was based on his doctoral research, Robinson urged cartographers to consider the function of a map as an integral part of the design process. 
       In the text In The Nature of Maps (1976), Robinson and co-author Barbara Bartz Petchenik created the term map percipient, a map user who interacts with a map in a discerning way and not merely as a casual observer. The authors stressed that ... the nature of the map as an image and the manner in which it functions as a communication device between the cartographer and percipient need much deeper consideration and analysis than they have yet received. 
       Robinson also co-authored a widely used textbook, Elements of Cartography, the sixth and last edition of which was published in 1995.
       
      Robinson projection 
      
       
         
        
         The Robinson projection is an example of a pseudocylindrical projection.
        
       
       
      One of Robinson's most notable accomplishments is the Robinson projection. In 1961, Rand McNally asked Robinson to choose a projection for use as a world map that, among other criteria, was uninterrupted, had limited distortion, and was pleasing to the eye of general viewers. Robinson could not find a projection that satisfied the criteria, so Rand McNally commissioned him to design one. 
      Robinson proceeded through an iterative process to create a pseudo-cylindrical projection that intends to strike a compromise between distortions in areas and in distances, in order to attain a more natural visualization. The projection has been widely used since its introduction. In 1988, National Geographic adopted it for their world maps but replaced it in 1998 with the Winkel tripel projection.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Biography portal 
        World War II portal 
        United States portal
       
       
      
       Rand McNally 
       Nicolas Auguste Tissot 
       David Woodward 
       Geographers on Film
       
      Publications 
      Robinson produced over 60 articles for professional publications, as well as fifteen books and monographs. Books:  
      
       1952. The Look of Maps. Madison:University of Wisconsin Press. 
       1976. The Nature of Maps. With B. Petchenik. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press. 
       1982. Early Thematic Mapping in the History of Cartography. 
       1995. Elements of Cartography (6th Edition). With A. Robinson, J. Morrison, P. Muehrke, A. Kimmerling &amp; S. Guptill. New York: Wiley.
       
      References 
       
       
         
          
         Wikiquote has quotations related to: Arthur H. Robinson
         
       
       
      
       
       
         
         ^ Wilford, John Noble (November 15, 2004). "Arthur H. Robinson, 89, Geographer Who Reinterpreted World Map, Dies". NY Times.  
         ^ Robinson legacy Archived February 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine Retrieved September 2, 2008.  
         ^ Gregory H. Chu (2004). "Great geographers: Arthur H. Robinson.(Obituary)". In: Focus on Geography. December 22, 2004.  
         ^ a b Robinson, A. (1979). Geography and Cartography then and now. Annals of the Association of American Geographers, 69(1), 97–102.  
         ^ 
           Robinson, Arthur H. (1997). "The President's Globe". Imago Mundi. 49: 143–152. doi:10.1080/03085699708592865. ISSN&nbsp;0308-5694. JSTOR&nbsp;1151340.  
         ^ 
           Rhodes, Andrew (2020). "The Geographic President: How Franklin D. Roosevelt Used Maps to Make and Communicate Strategy". The Portolan Journal (Washington Map Society). 107.  
         ^ a b c Current Biography Yearbook. (1996). Arthur H. Robinson, 467–471.  
         ^ Slocum, T.; McMaster, R.; Kessler, F.; &amp; Howard, H. (2005) Thematic Cartography and Geographic Visualization (2nd Edition). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall. p. 24.  
         ^ Map library Archived April 4, 2006, at the Wayback Machine at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.  
         ^ Arthur H. Robinson and Randall D. Sale, Elements of Cartography (3rd Edition), New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1969, 250.  
         ^ 
           Robinson, Arthur (1952). The Look of Maps. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. pp.&nbsp;62–63. ISBN&nbsp;0-299-00950-5.  
         ^ Robinson, A. &amp; Petchenik, B. (1976). The Nature of Maps. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press., p. 20.  
         ^ Map Projection: Interrupted Maps, progonos.com — A flattened global map has separated gores to limit the distortion involved.  
         ^ Robinson, A. (1974). "A New Map Projection: Its Development and Characteristics". In: International Yearbook of Cartography, pp. 145–155. pp. 147–148.  
         ^ 
           Harris, Elizabeth (October 1987). "Review of The Look of Maps: An Examination of Cartographic Design by Arthur H. Robinson". Technology and Culture. 28 (4): 863–865. doi:10.2307/3105198. JSTOR&nbsp;3105198.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arthur_H._Robinson&amp;oldid=1010878410"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1915 births
       2004 deaths
       American cartographers
       American geographers
       Anglophone Quebec people
       Canadian emigrants to the United States
       Ohio State University alumni
       People from Montreal
       Recipients of the Legion of Merit
       Presidents of the American Association of Geographers
       University of Wisconsin–Madison College of Letters and Science alumni
       20th-century geographers
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Use mdy dates from February 2021
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikiquote
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       भोजपुरी
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Français
       Italiano
       مصرى
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 March 2021, at 20:45&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
