
 
  
   
  Ben Shneiderman - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Ben Shneiderman 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American&nbsp;computer scientist
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Ben Shneiderman
          
        
        
         
          
           Shneiderman at UNC Charlotte, April 1, 2011
          
        
        
         Born
          (1947-08-21) August 21, 1947 (age&nbsp;74)
          
           New York City, New York
          
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         City College of New York (B.S., Mathematics and Physics, 1968)Stony Brook University (M.S., Computer Science, 1972; Ph.D., 1973)
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Nassi–Shneiderman diagram, treemap, Information Visualization, HyperLink, Touchscreen, Direct manipulation interface
        
        
         Awards
         Member National Academy of Engineering, ACM Fellow, AAAS Fellow, IEEE Fellow, IEEE Visualization Career Award, SIGCHI LifeTime Achievement, Miles Conrad Award, National Academy of Inventors Fellow
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Computer science, human–computer interaction, information visualization social media
        
        
         Institutions
         University of Maryland, College Park
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Jack Heller
        
        
         Doctoral students
         Andrew Sears
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Ben Shneiderman (born August 21, 1947) is an American computer scientist, a Distinguished University Professor in the University of Maryland Department of Computer Science, which is part of the University of Maryland College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences at the University of Maryland, College Park, and the founding director (1983-2000) of the University of Maryland Human-Computer Interaction Lab. He conducted fundamental research in the field of human–computer interaction, developing new ideas, methods, and tools such as the direct manipulation interface, and his eight rules of design.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Early life and education 
        2 Career 
        3 Awards and honors 
        4 Personal life 
        5 Work 
          
          5.1 Nassi–Shneiderman diagram 
          5.2 Flowchart research 
          5.3 Designing the User Interface 
          5.4 The Craft of Information Visualization: Readings and Reflections, 2003 
          5.5 Direct manipulation interface 
          5.6 Information visualization 
          5.7 Taxonomy of interactive dynamics for visual analysis, 2012 
          5.8 Universal usability 
          5.9 Human-Centered AI 
           
        6 Publications 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Early life and education 
      Born in New York, Shneiderman, attended the Bronx High School of Science, and received a BS in Mathematics and Physics from the City College of New York in 1968. He then went on to study at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, where he received an MS in Computer Science in 1972 and graduated with a PhD in 1973.  
      Career 
      Shneiderman started his academic career at the State University of New York at Farmingdale in 1968 as instructor at the Department of Data Processing. In the last year before his graduation he was instructor at the Department of Computer Science of Stony Brook University (then called State University of New York at Stony Brook). In 1973 he was appointed Assistant Professor at the Indiana University, Department of Computer Science. In 1976 he moved to the University of Maryland. He started out as Assistant Professor in its Department of Information Systems Management, and became Associate Professor in 1979. In 1983 he moved to its Department of Computer Science as Associate Professor, and was promoted to full professor in 1989. In 1983 he was the Founding Director of its Human-Computer Interaction Lab, which he directed until 2000. 
      In 2002 his book Leonardo's Laptop: Human Needs and the New Computing Technologies was Winner of an IEEE-USA Award for Distinguished Contributions Furthering Public Understanding of the Profession. His 2016 book, The New ABCs of Research: Achieving Breakthrough Collaborations, encourages applied and basic research to be combined. In 2019, he published Encounters with HCI Pioneers: A Personal History and Photo Journal, and Human-Centered AI in 2022.  
      Awards and honors 
      Shneiderman was inducted as a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery in 1997, a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2001, a Member of the National Academy of Engineering in 2010, an IEEE Fellow in 2012, and a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors in 2015. He is an ACM CHI Academy Member and received their Lifetime Achievement Award in 2001. He received the IEEE Visualization Career Award in 2012 and was inducted into the IEEE VIS Academy in 2019. In 2021 he received the InfoVis Conference Test of Time Award  with co-authors Ben Bederson and Martin M. Wattenberg. 
      He received Honorary Doctorates from the University of Guelph (Canada) in 1995, the University of Castile-La Mancha (Spain) in 2010, Stony Brook University in 2015, the University of Melbourne in 2017, Swansea University (in Wales, UK) in 2018, and the University of Pretoria (in South Africa) in 2018.  
      Personal life 
      Shneiderman resides in Bethesda, Maryland. He is the nephew of photographer David Seymour.  
      Work 
      Nassi–Shneiderman diagram 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Example of a Nassi–Shneiderman diagram
        
       
       
      In the 1973 article "Flowchart techniques for structured programming" presented at a 1973 SIGPLAN meeting Isaac Nassi and Shneiderman argued:  
      
      
       With the advent of structured programming and GOTO-less programming a method is needed to model computation in simply ordered structures, each representing a complete thought possibly defined in terms of other thoughts as yet undefined. A model is needed which prevents unrestricted transfers of control and has a control structure closer to languages amenable to structured programming. We present an attempt at such a model.
       
      The new model technique for structured programming they presented has become known as the Nassi–Shneiderman diagram; a graphical representation of the design of structured software.  
      Flowchart research 
      In the 1970s Shneiderman continued to study programmers, and the use of flow charts. In the 1977 article "Experimental investigations of the utility of detailed flowcharts in programming" Shneiderman et al. summarized the origin and status quo of flowcharts in computer programming:  
      
       Flowcharts have been a part of computer programming since the introduction of computers in the 1940s. In 1947 Goldstein and von Neumann  presented a system of describing processes using operation, assertion, and alternative boxes. They felt that "coding begins with the drawing of flow diagram." Prior to coding, the algorithm had been identified and understood. The flowchart represented a high level definition of the solution to be implemented on a machine. Although they were working only with numerical algorithms, they proposed a programming methodology which has since become standard practice in the computer programming field. 
       
      Furthermore, Shneiderman had conducted experiments which suggested that flowcharts were not helpful for writing, understanding, or modifying computer programs. At the end of their 1977 paper, Shneiderman et al. concluded:  
      
       Although our original intention was to ascertain under which conditions detailed flowcharts were most helpful, our repeated negative results have led us to a more skeptical opinion of the utility of detailed flowcharts under modern programming conditions. We repeatedly selected problems and tried to create test conditions which would favor the flowchart groups, but found no statistically significant differences between the flowchart and non-flowchart groups. In some cases the mean scores for the non-flowchart groups even surpassed the means for the flowchart groups. We conjecture that detailed flowcharts are merely a redundant presentation of the information contained in the programming language statements. The flowcharts may even be at a disadvantage because they are not as complete (omitting declarations, statement labels, and input/output formats) and require many more pages than do the concise programming language statements.
       
      Designing the User Interface 
      In 1986, he published the first edition (now on its sixth edition) of his book "Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction." Included in this book is his most popular list of "Eight Golden Rules of Interface Design," which read:  
       
       
        Strive for consistency. Consistent sequences of actions should be required in similar situations ... 
        Enable frequent users to use shortcuts. As the frequency of use increases, so do the user's desires to reduce the number of interactions ... 
        Offer informative feedback. For every operator action, there should be some system feedback ... 
        Design dialog to yield closure. Sequences of actions should be organized into groups with a beginning, middle, and end ... 
        Offer simple error handling. As much as possible, design the system so the user cannot make a serious error ... 
        Permit easy reversal of actions. This feature relieves anxiety, since the user knows that errors can be undone ... 
        Support internal locus of control. Experienced operators strongly desire the sense that they are in charge of the system and that the system responds to their actions. Design the system to make users the initiators of actions rather than the responders. 
        Reduce short-term memory load. The limitation of human information processing in short-term memory requires that displays be kept simple, multiple page displays be consolidated, window-motion frequency be reduced, and sufficient training time be allotted for codes, mnemonics, and sequences of actions.
       
       
      These guidelines are frequently taught in courses on Human-Computer Interaction.  
      The Craft of Information Visualization: Readings and Reflections, 2003 
      In 2003, Ben Bederson and Shneiderman coauthored the book "The Craft of Information Visualization: Readings and Reflections". Included in Chapter 8: Theories for Understanding Information Visualization in this book are five goals of theories for HCI practitioners and researchers, which read:  
       
       The typical goals of theories are to enable practitioners and researchers to:  
       
        Describe objects and actions in a consistent and clear manner to enable cooperation 
        Explain processes to support education and training 
        Predict performance in normal and novel situations so as to increase the chances of success 
        Prescribe guidelines, recommend best practices, and caution about dangers 
        Generate novel ideas to improve research and practice.
       
       
      These goals are frequently taught in courses on Human-Computer Interaction and cited in works by authors such as Yvonne Rogers, Victor Kaptelinin, and Bonnie Nardi.  
      Direct manipulation interface 
      Shneiderman's cognitive analysis of user needs led to principles of direct manipulation interface design in 1982: (1) continuous representation of the objects and actions, (2) rapid, incremental, and reversible actions, and (3) physical actions and gestures to replace typed commands, which enabled designers to craft more effective graphical user interfaces. He applied those principles to design innovative user interfaces such as the highlighted selectable phrases in text, that were used in the commercially successful Hyperties. Hyperties was used to author the world's first electronic scientific journal issue, which was the July 1988 issue of the Communications of the ACM with seven papers from the 1987 Hypertext conference. It was made available as a floppy disk accompanying the printed journal. Tim Berners-Lee cited this disk as the source for his "hot spots" in his Spring 1989 manifesto for the World Wide Web. Hyperties was also used to create the world's first commercial electronic book, Hypertext Hands-On! in 1988. 
      Direct manipulation concepts led to touchscreen interfaces for home controls, finger-painting, and the now ubiquitous small touchscreen keyboards. The development of the "Lift-off strategy" by University of Maryland Human–Computer Interaction Lab (HCIL) researchers enabled users to touch the screen, getting feedback as to what will be selected, adjust their finger position, and complete the selection by lifting the finger off the screen. 
      The HCIL team applied direct manipulation principles for touchscreen home automation systems, finger-painting programs, and the double-box range sliders that gained prominence by their inclusion in Spotfire. The visual presentation inherent in direct manipulation emphasized the opportunity for information visualization. 
      In 1997, Pattie Maes and Shneiderman had a public debate on Direct Manipulation vs. Interface Agents at CHI'97 and IUI 1997 (with the IUI Proceedings showing two separate papers but no remaining internet trace of the panel.) Those events helped define the two current dominant themes in human-computer interaction: direct human control of computer operations via visual user interfaces vs delegation of control to interface agents that know the users desires and act on their behalf, thereby requiring less human attention. Their debate continues to be highly cited (with 479 citations in January 2022 for the original CHI debate), especially in user interface design communities where return debates took place at the ACM CHI 2017 and ACM CHI 2021 conferences.  
      Information visualization 
      His major work in recent years has been on information visualization, originating the treemap concept for hierarchical data. Treemaps are implemented in most information visualization tools including Spotfire, Tableau Software, QlikView, SAS, JMP, and Microsoft Excel. Treemaps are included in hard drive exploration tools, stock market data analysis, census systems, election data, gene expression, and data journalism. The artistic side of treemaps are on view in the Treemap Art Project. 
      He also developed dynamic queries sliders with multiple coordinated displays that are a key component of Spotfire, which was acquired by TIBCO in 2007. His work continued on visual analysis tools for time series data, TimeSearcher, high dimensional data, Hierarchical Clustering Explorer, and social network data, SocialAction. Shneiderman contributed to the widely used social network analysis and visualization tool NodeXL. 
      Current work deals with visualization of temporal event sequences, such as found in Electronic Health Records, in systems such as LifeLines2 and EventFlow. These tools visualize the categorical data that make up a single patient history and they present an aggregated view that enables analysts to find patterns in large patient history databases.  
      Taxonomy of interactive dynamics for visual analysis, 2012 
      In 2012, Jeffrey Heer and Shneiderman coauthored the article “Interactive Dynamics for Visual Analysis” in Association for Computing Machinery Queue vol. 10, no. 2. Included in this article is a taxonomy of interactive dynamics to assist researchers, designers, analysts, educators, and students in evaluating and creating visual analysis tools. The taxonomy consists of 12 task types grouped into three high-level categories, as shown below.  
       
       
         
         Data &amp; View Specification  
         Visualize data by choosing visual encodings. Filter out data to focus on relevant items. Sort items to expose patterns. Derive values or models from source data.  
         
         
         View Manipulation  
         Select items to highlight, filter, or manipulate them. Navigate to examine high-level patterns and low-level detail. Coordinate views for linked, multi-dimensional exploration. Organize multiple windows and workspaces.  
         
         
         Process &amp; Provenance  
         Record analysis histories for revisitation, review, and sharing. Annotate patterns to document findings. Share views and annotations to enable collaboration. Guide users through analysis tasks or stories.  
        
       
      
       
      Universal usability 
      He also defined the research area of universal usability to encourage greater attention to diverse users, languages, cultures, screen sizes, network speeds, and technology platforms.  
      Human-Centered AI 
      The current topic of Shneiderman's Scholarship is Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence  
      Shneiderman proposes an alternative vision of AI which focuses on the need for reliable, safe and trustworthy systems that enable people to benefit from the power of AI while remaining in control. Shneiderman emphasizes the need for technologies that "augment, amplify, empower, and enhance humans rather than replace them".  
      Publications 
      List of articles:  
      
       Shneiderman, Ben, Human-Centered AI, Oxford University Press, 2022 
       Shneiderman, Ben. The New ABCs of Research: Achieving Breakthrough Collaborations; Oxford University Press, 2016. 
       Shneiderman, Ben. Software Psychology: Human Factors in Computer and Information Systems; Little, Brown and Co, 1980. 
       Shneiderman, Ben. Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human–Computer Interaction, 1st edition. Addison-Wesley, 1986; 2nd ed. 1992; 3rd ed. 1998; 4th ed. 2005; 5th ed. 2010; 6th ed., 2016. 
       Card, Stuart K., Jock D. Mackinlay, and Ben Shneiderman, eds. Readings in Information Visualization: Using Vision to Think. Morgan Kaufmann, 1999. 
       Shneiderman, Ben. Leonardo's Laptop: Human Needs and the New Computing Technologies; MIT Press, 2002. 
       Hansen, Derek, Ben Shneiderman, and Marc A. Smith. Analyzing social media networks with NodeXL: Insights from a connected world. Morgan Kaufmann, 2010. 
       Johnson, Brian, and Ben Shneiderman. "Tree-maps: A space-filling approach to the visualization of hierarchical information structures." Visualization, 1991. Visualization'91, Proceedings., IEEE Conference on. IEEE, 1991. 
       Shneiderman, Ben. "Tree visualization with tree-maps: 2-d space-filling approach." ACM Transactions on Graphics 11.1 (1992): 92–99. 
       Ahlberg, Christopher, and Ben Shneiderman. "Visual information seeking: tight coupling of dynamic query filters with starfield displays." Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems. ACM, 1994. 
       Shneiderman, Ben. "The eyes have it: A task by data type taxonomy for information visualizations." Visual Languages, 1996. Proceedings., IEEE Symposium on. IEEE, 1996. 
       Bederson, B., Shneiderman, B. 2003. The Craft of Information Visualization: Readings and Reflections. Morgan Kaufmann. 
       Heer, J., Shneiderman, B. 2012. Interactive Dynamics for Visual Analysis. ACM Queue, 10(2), Issue 2. 
       Shneiderman, B. (2020). Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence: Reliable, Safe &amp; Trustworthy. International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction, 1-10.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Shneiderman's Eight Golden Rules of Interface Design". Retrieved December 4, 2015.  
        ^ CURRICULUM VITAE (June 20, 2014) at cs.umd.edu. Accessed 14-04-2015.  
        ^ a b 
          Shneiderman, Ben (2022). Human-Centered AI. Oxford University Press.  
        ^ 2012 Newly Elevated Fellows Archived February 15, 2012, at the Wayback Machine IEEE, accessed 2011-12-10.  
        ^ 
          "Colwell Named a Fellow in the National Academy of Inventors | UMIACS".  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on September 7, 2015. Retrieved December 4, 2015.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 2021 InfoVis Conference Test of Time Award  
        ^ Doctorado Honoris Causa de Ben Shneiderman Archived September 2, 2011, at the Wayback Machine (in Spanish)  
        ^ 
          "Newsday | Long Island's &amp; NYC's News Source | Newsday".  
        ^ https://www.loc.gov/item/prn-14-194/photographer-david-seymour/2014-10-31/ Library (of Congress) to Commemorate Work of Photographer David Seymour, OCTOBER 31, 2014. Retrieved 11 January 2022]  
        ^ Nassi, Isaac, and Ben Shneiderman. "Flowchart techniques for structured programming.|ACM SIGPLAN Notices 8.8 (1973): 12-26.  
        ^ Ben Shneiderman. "A short history of structured flowcharts (Nassi–Shneiderman diagram)," at www.cs.umd.edu. May 27, 2003.  
        ^ B. Shneiderman, R. Mayer, D. McKay, and P. Heller. "Experimental investigations of the utility of detailed flowcharts in programming," Communications of the ACM, Vol. 20, Iss. 6, June 1977.  
        ^ Shneiderman et al. (1977, p. 380)  
        ^ Shneiderman (1998, p. 75); as cited in: "Eight Golden Rules of Interface Design". at www.cs.umd.edu. Accessed 15.04.2015.  
        ^ Bederson, B., Shneiderman, B. 2003. The Craft of Information Visualization: Readings and Reflections. Morgan Kaufmann, p.349-351.  
        ^ 
          "Hypertext Research: The Development of HyperTIES".  
        ^ 
          "July 1988 Table of Contents | Communications of the ACM".  
        ^ 
          "The original proposal of the WWW, HTMLized".  
        ^ 
          Potter, R., Weldon, L., Shneiderman, B. Improving the accuracy of touch screens: an experimental evaluation of three strategies. Proc. of the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, CHI '88. Washington, DC. pp.&nbsp;27–32. doi:10.1145/57167.57171. Archived from the original on December 8, 2015.}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)  
        ^   
        ^ 
          "Dynamic queries, starfield displays, and the path to Spotfire".  
        ^  CHI 1997 Panel  
        ^  Shneiderman's IUI'97 paper  
        ^  Maes's IUI'97 paper  
        ^  Direct Manipulation vs. Interface Agents (1997 paper in Interactions)  
        ^ Google Scholar list of citations of the Maes-Shneiderman CHI Panel debate  
        ^  CHI 2017 Panel  
        ^  CHI 2021 Panel  
        ^ history page  
        ^ 
          "SocialAction". University of Maryland. December 30, 2007. Retrieved December 30, 2007.  
        ^ 
          "Lifelines2". umd.edu. Retrieved September 23, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "EventFlow". umd.edu. Retrieved March 11, 2015.  
        ^ Heer, J., Shneiderman, B. 2012. Interactive Dynamics for Visual Analysis. ACM Queue, 10(2), Issue 2, 1-22.  
        ^ 
          Shneiderman, Ben (2020). "Human-centered artificial intelligence: Reliable, safe &amp; trustworthy". International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction. 36 (6): 495–504. Retrieved January 11, 2022.  
        ^ 
          Shneiderman, Ben (2020). "Human-Centered Artificial IntelligenceI". Human-Computer Interaction Lab. University of Maryland. Retrieved January 12, 2022.  
        ^ Ben Shneiderman at DBLP Bibliography Server   
        ^ Ben Shneiderman publications indexed by Google Scholar  
        ^ https://global.oup.com/academic/product/human-centered-ai-9780192845290? Human-Centered AI  
        ^ https://global.oup.com/academic/product/the-new-abcs-of-research-9780198758839 The New ABCs of Research  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ben Shneiderman.
         
       
       
      
       Ben Shneiderman's home page 
       Ben Shneiderman papers at the University of Maryland Libraries 
       Ben Shneiderman's channel on YouTube 
       Treemap Art Project 
       Interviewed by Alan Macfarlane 7 August 2009 (video)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             ORCID 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Israel 
             Korea 
             Croatia 
             Netherlands 
             Sweden
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             Association for Computing Machinery 
             CiNii (Japan) 
             DBLP (computer science) 
             Google Scholar
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ben_Shneiderman&amp;oldid=1066355959"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1947 births
       Living people
       American computer scientists
       Human–computer interaction
       Human–computer interaction researchers
       Information visualization experts
       The Bronx High School of Science alumni
       City College of New York alumni
       Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery
       Fellow Members of the IEEE
       University of Maryland, College Park faculty
       Fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
       Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
       Stony Brook University alumni
       Scientists from New York City
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       CS1 maint: uses authors parameter
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from August 2014
       Articles with hCards
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with ORCID identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NLK identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with ACM-DL identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with Google Scholar identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 27 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       تۆرکجه
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Malagasy
       مصرى
       日本語
       Português
       Svenska
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 January 2022, at 00:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
