
 
  
   
  National Institute of Standards and Technology - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   National Institute of Standards and Technology 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Measurement standards laboratory in the United States
       
      
      
       "NIST" redirects here. For other uses, see NIST (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
       
       
        
         
        
        
         Agency overview
        
        
         Formed
         March 3, 1901; 120 years ago&nbsp;(March 3, 1901) (as National Bureau of&nbsp;Standards),became NIST in 1988
        
        
         Headquarters
         100 Bureau DriveGaithersburg, Maryland, U.S.39°07′59″N 77°13′25″W﻿ / ﻿39.13306°N 77.22361°W﻿ / 39.13306; -77.22361
        
        
         Employees
         Approx. 3,400
        
        
         Annual budget
         $1.03 billion (FY 2021)
        
        
         Agency executive
         
          
           
            James K. Olthoff (acting), Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and Director of NIST
           
          
        
        
         Parent department
         Department of Commerce
        
        
         Website
         www.nist.gov
        
       
       
      The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a physical sciences laboratory and non-regulatory agency of the United States Department of Commerce. Its mission is to promote American innovation and industrial competitiveness. NIST's activities are organized into laboratory programs that include nanoscale science and technology, engineering, information technology, neutron research, material measurement, and physical measurement. From 1901 to 1988, the agency was named the National Bureau of Standards.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 Background 
          1.2 Bureau of Standards 
           
        2 Constitution 
          
          2.1 Metric system 
           
        3 Organization 
          
          3.1 Committees 
           
        4 Projects 
          
          4.1 Measurements and standards 
          4.2 Handbook 44 
          4.3 Homeland security 
          4.4 World Trade Center collapse investigation 
          4.5 Election technology 
           
        5 People 
        6 Directors 
        7 Patents 
        8 Controversy regarding NIST standard SP 800-90 
        9 Publications 
        10 See also 
        11 References 
        12 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Background 
      The Articles of Confederation, ratified by the colonies in 1781, provided:  
      
       The United States in Congress assembled shall also have the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin struck by their own authority, or by that of the respective states—fixing the standards of weights and measures throughout the United States.
       
      Article 1, section 8, of the Constitution of the United States, ratified in 1789, granted these powers to the new Congress: "The Congress shall have power ... To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights and measures". 
      In January 1790, President George Washington, in his first annual message to Congress, said, "Uniformity in the currency, weights, and measures of the United States is an object of great importance, and will, I am persuaded, be duly attended to." Washington ordered Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson to prepare a Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States, later referred to informally as the Jefferson Report. 
      On October 25, 1791, Washington again appealed Congress:  
      
       A uniformity of the weights and measures of the country is among the important objects submitted to you by the Constitution and if it can be derived from a standard at once invariable and universal, must be no less honorable to the public council than conducive to the public convenience.
       
      In 1821, President John Quincy Adams declared, "Weights and measures may be ranked among the necessities of life to every individual of human society.". 
      Nevertheless, it was not until 1838 that the United States government adopted a uniform set of standards. 
      From 1830 until 1901, the role of overseeing weights and measures was carried out by the Office of Standard Weights and Measures, which was part of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey in the Department of the Treasury.  
      Bureau of Standards 
      In 1901, in response to a bill proposed by Congressman James H. Southard (R, Ohio), the National Bureau of Standards was founded with the mandate to provide standard weights and measures, and to serve as the national physical laboratory for the United States. (Southard had previously sponsored a bill for metric conversion of the United States.)   
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Chart of NBS activities, 1915
        
       
       
      President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Samuel W. Stratton as the first director. The budget for the first year of operation was $40,000. The Bureau took custody of the copies of the kilogram and meter bars that were the standards for US measures, and set up a program to provide metrology services for United States scientific and commercial users. A laboratory site was constructed in Washington, DC, and instruments were acquired from the national physical laboratories of Europe. In addition to weights and measures, the Bureau developed instruments for electrical units and for measurement of light. In 1905 a meeting was called that would be the first "National Conference on Weights and Measures". 
      Initially conceived as purely a metrology agency, the Bureau of Standards was directed by Herbert Hoover to set up divisions to develop commercial standards for materials and products.page 133 Some of these standards were for products intended for government use, but product standards also affected private-sector consumption. Quality standards were developed for products including some types of clothing, automobile brake systems and headlamps, antifreeze, and electrical safety. During World War I, the Bureau worked on multiple problems related to war production, even operating its own facility to produce optical glass when European supplies were cut off. Between the wars, Harry Diamond of the Bureau developed a blind approach radio aircraft landing system. During World War II, military research and development was carried out, including development of radio propagation forecast methods, the proximity fuze and the standardized airframe used originally for Project Pigeon, and shortly afterwards the autonomously radar-guided Bat anti-ship guided bomb and the Kingfisher family of torpedo-carrying missiles.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A mass spectrometer in use at the NBS in 1948.
        
       
       
      In 1948, financed by the United States Air Force, the Bureau began design and construction of SEAC, the Standards Eastern Automatic Computer. The computer went into operation in May 1950 using a combination of vacuum tubes and solid-state diode logic. About the same time the Standards Western Automatic Computer, was built at the Los Angeles office of the NBS by Harry Huskey and used for research there. A mobile version, DYSEAC, was built for the Signal Corps in 1954. 
      Due to a changing mission, the "National Bureau of Standards" became the "National Institute of Standards and Technology" in 1988. 
      Following September 11, 2001, NIST conducted the official investigation into the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings. 
      Following the 2021 Surfside condominium building collapse, NIST sent engineers to the site to investigate the cause of the collapse.  
      Constitution 
      NIST, known between 1901 and 1988 as the National Bureau of Standards (NBS), is a measurement standards laboratory, also known as the National Metrological Institute (NMI), which is a non-regulatory agency of the United States Department of Commerce. The institute's official mission is to:  
      
      
       Promote U.S. innovation and industrial competitiveness by advancing measurement science, standards, and technology in ways that enhance economic security and improve our quality of life.
       
        — NIST
       
       
      NIST had an operating budget for fiscal year 2007 (October 1, 2006&nbsp;– September 30, 2007) of about $843.3 million. NIST's 2009 budget was $992 million, and it also received $610 million as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. NIST employs about 2,900 scientists, engineers, technicians, and support and administrative personnel. About 1,800 NIST associates (guest researchers and engineers from American companies and foreign countries) complement the staff. In addition, NIST partners with 1,400 manufacturing specialists and staff at nearly 350 affiliated centers around the country. NIST publishes the Handbook 44 that provides the "Specifications, tolerances, and other technical requirements for weighing and measuring devices".  
      Metric system 
      The Congress of 1866 made use of the metric system in commerce a legally protected activity through the passage of Metric Act of 1866. On May 20, 1875, 17 out of 20 countries signed a document known as the Metric Convention or the Treaty of the Meter, which established the International Bureau of Weights and Measures under the control of an international committee elected by the General Conference on Weights and Measures.  
      Organization 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Advanced Measurement Laboratory Complex in Gaithersburg
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Aerial view of the Gaithersburg campus in 2019
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boulder Laboratories
        
       
       
      NIST is headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland, and operates a facility in Boulder, Colorado, which was dedicated by President Eisenhower in&nbsp;1954. NIST's activities are organized into laboratory programs and extramural programs. Effective October 1, 2010, NIST was realigned by reducing the number of NIST laboratory units from ten to six. NIST Laboratories include:  
      
       Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL) 
       Engineering Laboratory (EL) 
       Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) 
       Center for Neutron Research (NCNR) 
       Material Measurement Laboratory (MML) 
       Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML)
       
      Extramural programs include:  
      
       Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), a nationwide network of centers to assist small and mid-sized manufacturers to create and retain jobs, improve efficiencies, and minimize waste through process improvements and to increase market penetration with innovation and growth strategies; 
       Technology Innovation Program (TIP), a grant program where NIST and industry partners cost share the early-stage development of innovative but high-risk technologies; 
       Baldrige Performance Excellence Program, which administers the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award, the nation's highest award for performance and business excellence.
       
       NIST's Boulder laboratories are best known for NIST‑F1, which houses an atomic clock. NIST‑F1 serves as the source of the nation's official time. From its measurement of the natural resonance frequency of cesium—which defines the second—NIST broadcasts time signals via longwave radio station WWVB near Fort Collins, Colorado, and shortwave radio stations WWV and WWVH, located near Fort Collins and Kekaha, Hawaii, respectively. 
      NIST also operates a neutron science user facility: the NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR). The NCNR provides scientists access to a variety of neutron scattering instruments, which they use in many research fields (materials science, fuel cells, biotechnology, etc.). 
      The SURF III Synchrotron Ultraviolet Radiation Facility is a source of synchrotron radiation, in continuous operation since 1961. SURF III now serves as the US national standard for source-based radiometry throughout the generalized optical spectrum. All NASA-borne, extreme-ultraviolet observation instruments have been calibrated at SURF since the 1970s, and SURF is used for measurement and characterization of systems for extreme ultraviolet lithography. 
      The Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST) performs research in nanotechnology, both through internal research efforts and by running a user-accessible cleanroom nanomanufacturing facility. This "NanoFab" is equipped with tools for lithographic patterning and imaging (e.g., electron microscopes and atomic force microscopes).  
      Committees 
      NIST has seven standing committees:  
      
       Technical Guidelines Development Committee (TGDC) 
       Advisory Committee on Earthquake Hazards Reduction (ACEHR) 
       National Construction Safety Team Advisory Committee (NCST Advisory Committee) 
       Information Security and Privacy Advisory Board (ISPAB) 
       Visiting Committee on Advanced Technology (VCAT) 
       Board of Overseers for the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award (MBNQA Board of Overseers) 
       Manufacturing Extension Partnership National Advisory Board (MEPNAB)
       
      Projects 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A 40 nm wide NIST logo made with cobalt atoms
        
       
       
      Measurements and standards 
      As part of its mission, NIST supplies industry, academia, government, and other users with over 1,300 Standard Reference Materials (SRMs). These artifacts are certified as having specific characteristics or component content, used as calibration standards for measuring equipment and procedures, quality control benchmarks for industrial processes, and experimental control samples.  
      Handbook 44 
      NIST publishes the Handbook 44 each year after the annual meeting of the National Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWM). Each edition is developed through cooperation of the Committee on Specifications and Tolerances of the NCWM and the Weights and Measures Division (WMD) of the NIST. The purpose of the book is a partial fulfillment of the statutory responsibility for "cooperation with the states in securing uniformity of weights and measures laws and methods of inspection". 
      NIST has been publishing various forms of what is now the Handbook 44 since 1918 and began publication under the current name in 1949. The 2010 edition conforms to the concept of the primary use of the SI (metric) measurements recommended by the Omnibus Foreign Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988.  
      Homeland security 
      NIST is developing government-wide identity document standards for federal employees and contractors to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining access to government buildings and computer systems.  
      World Trade Center collapse investigation 
      In 2002, the National Construction Safety Team Act mandated NIST to conduct an investigation into the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings 1 and 2 and the 47-story 7 World Trade Center. The "World Trade Center Collapse Investigation", directed by lead investigator Shyam Sunder, covered three aspects, including a technical building and fire safety investigation to study the factors contributing to the probable cause of the collapses of the WTC Towers (WTC 1 and 2) and WTC 7. NIST also established a research and development program to provide the technical basis for improved building and fire codes, standards, and practices, and a dissemination and technical assistance program to engage leaders of the construction and building community in implementing proposed changes to practices, standards, and codes. NIST also is providing practical guidance and tools to better prepare facility owners, contractors, architects, engineers, emergency responders, and regulatory authorities to respond to future disasters. The investigation portion of the response plan was completed with the release of the final report on 7 World Trade Center on November 20, 2008. The final report on the WTC Towers—including 30 recommendations for improving building and occupant safety—was released on October 26, 2005.  
      Election technology 
      NIST works in conjunction with the Technical Guidelines Development Committee of the Election Assistance Commission to develop the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines for voting machines and other election technology.  
      
      
       Further information: Certification of voting machines
       
      People 
      Four scientific researchers at NIST have been awarded Nobel Prizes for work in physics: William Daniel Phillips in 1997, Eric Allin Cornell in 2001, John Lewis Hall in 2005 and David Jeffrey Wineland in 2012, which is the largest number for any US government laboratory. All four were recognized for their work related to laser cooling of atoms, which is directly related to the development and advancement of the atomic clock. In 2011, Dan Shechtman was awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry for his work on quasicrystals in the Metallurgy Division from 1982 to 1984. In addition, John Werner Cahn was awarded the 2011 Kyoto Prize for Materials Science, and the National Medal of Science has been awarded to NIST researchers Cahn (1998) and Wineland (2007). Other notable people who have worked at NBS or NIST include:  
      
       
       
        Milton Abramowitz 
        James Sacra Albus 
        David W. Allan 
        Norman Bekkedahl 
        Ferdinand Graft Brickwedde 
        Lyman James Briggs 
        Edgar Buckingham 
        John M. Butler 
        William Weber Coblentz 
        Ronald Collé 
        Philip J. Davis 
        Hugh Latimer Dryden 
        Jack R. Edmonds 
        Ugo Fano 
        Charlotte Froese Fischer 
        Tim Foecke 
        John Cantius Garand 
        Katharine Blodgett Gebbie 
        Douglas Rayner Hartree 
        Magnus Rudolph Hestenes 
        Deborah S. Jin 
        John Kelsey 
        Russell A. Kirsch 
        Cornelius Lanczos 
        Wilfrid Basil Mann 
        William Clyde Martin 
        William Frederick Meggers 
        Christopher Roy Monroe 
        James G. Nell 
        Frank William John Olver 
        E. Ward Plummer 
        Jacob Rabinow 
        Richard J. Saykally 
        Charlotte Emma Moore Sitterly 
        Irene Ann Stegun 
        William C. Stone
        
       
      Directors 
      
      
       Main article: List of directors of the National Institute of Standards and Technology
       
      Since 1989, the director of NIST has been a Presidential appointee and is confirmed by the United States Senate, and since that year the average tenure of NIST directors has fallen from 11 years to 2 years in duration. Since the 2011 reorganization of NIST, the director also holds the title of Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology. Fifteen individuals have officially held the position (in addition to four acting directors who have served on a temporary basis).  
      Patents 
      The NIST holds patents on behalf of the Federal government of the United States, with at least one of them being custodial to protect public domain use, such as one for a Chip-scale atomic clock, developed by a NIST team as part of a DARPA competition.  
      Controversy regarding NIST standard SP 800-90 
      In September 2013, both The Guardian and The New York Times reported that NIST allowed the National Security Agency (NSA) to insert a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator called Dual EC DRBG into NIST standard SP 800-90 that had a kleptographic backdoor that the NSA can use to covertly predict the future outputs of this pseudorandom number generator thereby allowing the surreptitious decryption of data. Both papers report that the NSA worked covertly to get its own version of SP 800-90 approved for worldwide use in 2006. The whistle-blowing document states that "eventually, NSA became the sole editor". The reports confirm suspicions and technical grounds publicly raised by cryptographers in 2007 that the EC-DRBG could contain a kleptographic backdoor (perhaps placed in the standard by NSA). 
      NIST responded to the allegations, stating that "NIST works to publish the strongest cryptographic standards possible" and that it uses "a transparent, public process to rigorously vet our recommended standards". The agency stated that "there has been some confusion about the standards development process and the role of different organizations in it...The National Security Agency (NSA) participates in the NIST cryptography process because of its recognized expertise. NIST is also required by statute to consult with the NSA." Recognizing the concerns expressed, the agency reopened the public comment period for the SP800-90 publications, promising that "if vulnerabilities are found in these or any other NIST standards, we will work with the cryptographic community to address them as quickly as possible”. Due to public concern of this cryptovirology attack, NIST rescinded the EC-DRBG algorithm from the NIST SP 800-90 standard.  
      Publications 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         pdf
        
       
       
      
       The Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology is the flagship scientific journal at NIST. It has been published since 1904. 
       First published in 1972, the Journal of Physical and Chemical Reference Data, is a joint venture of the American Institute of Physics and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
       
      See also 
      
       AD-X2 
       Advanced Encryption Standard process 
       Digital Library of Mathematical Functions (DLMF) 
       Inorganic Crystal Structure Database 
       International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
        
         ISO/IEC 17025&nbsp;– used by testing and calibration laboratories
         
       International System of Units, see International Bureau of Weights and Measures 
       Multiple Biometric Grand Challenge 
       National Physical Laboratory (United Kingdom) 
       National Software Reference Library 
       NIST Handbook of Mathematical Functions 
       NIST hash function competition 
       Smart Grid Interoperability Panel 
       Technical Report Archive &amp; Image Library for NIS-digitized series 
       WWV (radio station) 
       Virtual Cybernetic Building Testbed 
       Samuel Wesley Stratton Award
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "NIST General Information". nist.gov. National Institute of Standards and Technology. December 24, 2008. Archived from the original on August 1, 2021. Retrieved July 18, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "FY 2022: Presidential Budget Request Summary". nist.gov. National Institute of Standards and Technology. June 8, 2021. Archived from the original on August 1, 2021. Retrieved July 18, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Dr. James K. Olthoff". commerce.gov. United States Department of Commerce. Archived from the original on July 18, 2021. Retrieved July 18, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "National Institute of Standards and Technology". U.S. Department of Commerce. Archived from the original on September 5, 2021. Retrieved September 5, 2021.  
        ^ Articles of Confederation of 1781, article IX, paragraph 4.  
        ^ a b NBS special publication 447 Archived October 17, 2011, at the Wayback Machine-Retrieved September 28, 2011  
        ^ 
          "Founders Online: From George Washington to the United States Senate and House o …". founders.archives.gov. Retrieved November 16, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Presidential Measurements Timeline". February 5, 2014. Archived from the original on October 2, 2021. Retrieved October 2, 2021.  
        ^ a b Records of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Archived October 19, 2017, at the Wayback Machine, National Archives and Records Administration website, (Record Group 167), 1830–1987.  
        ^ 
          "noaa.gov NOAA History: NOAA Legacy Timeline 1807–1899". Archived from the original on September 5, 2018. Retrieved December 16, 2020.  
        ^ Theberge, Captain Albert E., The Coast Survey 1807–1867: Volume I of the History of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, "THE HASSLER LEGACY: FERDINAND RUDOLPH HASSLER and the UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY: THE REBIRTH OF THE SURVEY," no publisher listed, NOAA History, 1998. Archived November 9, 2014, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ a b John Perry, The Story of Standards, Funk and Wagnalls, 1953, Library of Congress Cat. No. 55-11094, p. 123  
        ^ 
          "Agency that studied fall of Twin Towers in line to probe collapse of condo near Miami Beach". Miami Herald. Archived from the original on June 27, 2021. Retrieved July 8, 2021.  
        ^ NIST General Information. Archived August 23, 2016, at the Wayback Machine Retrieved on August 21, 2010.  
        ^ 
          "NIST Budget, Planning and Economic Studies". National Institute of Standards and Technology. October 5, 2010. Archived from the original on September 22, 2010. Retrieved October 6, 2010.  
        ^ 
          "Weights and Measures Standards of the United States a brief history" (PDF). ts.nist.gov. p.&nbsp;41. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 26, 2011. Retrieved September 28, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Weights and Measures Standards of the United States a brief history" (PDF). ts.nist.gov. p.&nbsp;22. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 26, 2011. Retrieved September 28, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Ike dedicates lab, voices peace hopes". Deseret News. (Salt Lake City, Utah). United Press. September 14, 1954. p.&nbsp;A1. Archived from the original on October 10, 2021. Retrieved March 23, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Ike dedicates two labs;'New type of frontier'". Meriden Record. (Connecticut). Associated Press. September 15, 1954. p.&nbsp;22. Archived from the original on October 10, 2021. Retrieved March 23, 2021.  
        ^ 
          "Significant papers from the first 50 years of the Boulder Labs" (PDF). United States Department of Commerce: Boulder Laboratories. August 2004. p.&nbsp;4. Archived (PDF) from the original on August 1, 2021. Retrieved July 23, 2021.  
        ^ NIST Strengthens Laboratory Mission Focus with New Structure Archived August 28, 2016, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ NIST Laboratories Archived August 26, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. National Institute of Standards and Technology. Retrieved on May 10, 2016.  
        ^ Communications Technology Laboratory Archived October 7, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (CTL)  
        ^ Engineering Laboratory Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (EL)  
        ^ Information Technology Laboratory Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (ITL)  
        ^ NIST Center for Neutron Research Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (NCNR)  
        ^ Material Measurement Laboratory Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (MML)  
        ^ Physical Measurement Laboratory Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (PML)  
        ^ Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership Archived July 12, 2017, at the Wayback Machine (MEP)  
        ^ . NIST. Retrieved on March 18, 2014.  
        ^ Handbook 44 Archived October 20, 2011, at the Wayback Machine- "Forward; page 5" Retrieved: September 28, 2011  
        ^ 
          100th Congress (1988) (June 16, 1988). "H.R. 4848". Legislation. GovTrack.us. Archived from the original on October 10, 2021. Retrieved September 28, 2011. Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988  
        ^ 
          Eric Lipton (August 22, 2008). "Fire, Not Explosives, Felled 3rd Tower on 9/11, Report Says". New York Times. Archived from the original on March 9, 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Final Reports of the Federal Building and Fire Investigation of the World Trade Center Disaster". National Institute of Standards and Technology. October 2005. Archived from the original on November 24, 2005.  
        ^ 
          "2012 Plum Book". Government Printing Office. 2012. Archived from the original on November 30, 2016. Retrieved December 2, 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Results of Search in US Patent Collection db for: AANM/NIST". U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Archived from the original on October 10, 2021. Retrieved December 12, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Ost, Laura (December 2, 2011). "Success Story: Chip-Scale Atomic Clock". National Institute of Standards and Technology. Archived from the original on December 9, 2020. Retrieved December 12, 2020.  
        ^ 
          Konkel, Frank (September 6, 2013). "What NSA's influence on NIST standards means for feds". FCW. 1105 Government Information Group. Archived from the original on September 10, 2013. Retrieved September 10, 2013.  
        ^ 
          James Borger; Glenn Greenwald (September 6, 2013). "Revealed: how US and UK spy agencies defeat internet privacy and security". The Guardian. Archived from the original on September 18, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2013.  
        ^ 
          Nicole Perlroth (September 5, 2013). "N.S.A. Able to Foil Basic Safeguards of Privacy on Web". The New York Times. Archived from the original on September 8, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2013.  
        ^ 
          Schneier, Bruce (November 15, 2007). "Did NSA Put a Secret Backdoor in New Encryption Standard?". Wired. Condé Nast. Archived from the original on September 19, 2012. Retrieved September 10, 2013.  
        ^ 
          Byers, Alex. "NSA encryption info could pose new security risk – NIST weighs in". Politico. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved September 10, 2013.  
        ^ 
          Perlroth, Nicole (September 10, 2013). "Government Announces Steps to Restore Confidence on Encryption Standards". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 29, 2013. Retrieved September 11, 2013.  
        ^ 
          Office of the Director, NIST (September 10, 2013). "Cryptographic Standards Statement". National Institute of Standsards in Technology. Archived from the original on September 12, 2013. Retrieved September 11, 2013.  
        ^ 
          "NIST Removes Cryptography Algorithm from Random Number Generator Recommendations". National Institute of Standards and Technology. April 21, 2014. Archived from the original on August 29, 2016.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has original works written by or about:National Institute of Standards and Technology
         
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to National Institute of Standards and Technology.
         
       
       
      
       Main NIST website 
       NIST in the Federal Register 
       NIST Publications Portal 
       The Official US Time 
       NIST Standard Reference Data 
       NIST Standard Reference Materials 
       NIST Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST) Archived August 19, 2016, at the Wayback Machine 
       Manufacturing Extension Partnership 
       Historic technical reports from the National Bureau of Standards (and other Federal agencies) are available in the Technical Report Archive and Image Library (TRAIL) 
       Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978, Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, Number 40: United States Standards of Weights and Measures, Their Creation and Creators, by Arthur H. Frazier
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            United States Department of Commerce
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Headquarters: Herbert C. Hoover Building
             
            
             Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce 
             Don Graves, Deputy Secretary of Commerce
             
           
         
         
          Deputy Secretary of Commerce
          
            
            
             Economic Development Administration 
             National Technical Information Service 
             Minority Business Development Agency 
             National Telecommunications and Information Administration
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs
          
            
            
             Bureau of the Census 
              
               Federal Audit Clearinghouse
               
             Bureau of Economic Analysis
             
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security
          
            
            
             Bureau of Industry and Security 
              
               Office of Export Enforcement
              
             
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property
          
            
            
             United States Patent and Trademark Office
             
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade
          
            
            
             International Trade Administration 
              
               Commercial Service
              
             
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere
          
            
            
             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
              
               NOAA Commissioned Officer Corps 
               National Marine Fisheries Service 
               National Ocean Service 
               National Weather Service 
                
                 National Centers for Environmental Prediction 
                  
                   Climate Prediction Center 
                   Environmental Modeling Center 
                   National Hurricane Center 
                   Ocean Prediction Center 
                   Space Weather Prediction Center 
                   Storm Prediction Center 
                   Weather Prediction Center
                  
                 
               Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research
              
             
           
         
         
          Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology
          
            
            
             National Institute of Standards and Technology
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Research and development agencies of the federal government of the United States (list)
           
         
         
          Independentagencies
          
            
            
             National Science Foundation (NSF) 
             National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) 
             Environmental Protection Agency Office of Research and Development 
             Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA) 
             Smithsonian Institution research centers and programs
             
           
         
         
          Agriculture
          
            
            
             Agricultural Research Service (ARS) 
             National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) 
             Economic Research Service (ERS) 
             United States Forest Service Research and Development (R&amp;D)
             
           
         
         
          Commerce
          
            
            
             National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
             
           
         
         
          Defense
          
           
           
            
             
              Army
              
                
                
                 Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (CCDCOM) 
                  
                   Army Research Laboratory (ARL) 
                   Combat Capabilities Development Command Soldier Center (CCDCSC)
                   
                 CCDC Armaments Center (CCDCAC) 
                  
                   Picatinny Arsenal 
                   Benét Laboratories 
                   Watervliet Arsenal
                   
                 Test and Evaluation Command (ATEC) 
                 United States Army Medical Research and Development Command (USAMRDC) 
                 Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC)
                 
               
             
             
              Marine Corps
              
                
                
                 Marine Corps Combat Development Command (MCCDC) 
                 Marine Corps Warfighting Laboratory (MCWL)
                 
               
             
             
              Navy
              
                
                
                 Office of Naval Research (ONR) 
                  
                   Naval Research Laboratory (NRL)
                   
                 Naval Medical Research Center (NMRC) 
                 Naval Warfare Centers 
                  
                   Air (NAWC) 
                   Surface (NSWC) 
                   Undersea (NUWC) 
                   Command, Control and Ocean Surveillance (NCCOSC)
                   
                 Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake (NAWS) 
                 Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)
                 
               
             
             
              Air Force
              
                
                
                 Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) 
                  
                   Air Armament Center (AAC) 
                   Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL)
                   
                 Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) 
                 Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (NWC) 
                 Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)
                 
               
             
             
              Space Force
              
                
                
                 Space Systems Command (SSC)
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) 
                 Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USU)
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Education
          
            
            
             Institute of Education Sciences (IES) 
             National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR)
             
           
         
         
          Energy
          
            
            
             Office of Science (DOE SC) 
             Advanced Research Projects Agency–Energy (ARPA-E) 
             National Laboratories
             
           
         
         
          Health andHuman Services
          
            
            
             National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
             National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) 
             Food and Drug Administration science and research programs 
             Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) 
             Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) 
             Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI)
             
           
         
         
          Homeland Security
          
            
            
             Science and Technology Directorate (S&amp;T) 
             Coast Guard Research and Development Center  (CG RDC)
             
           
         
         
          Interior
          
            
            
             United States Geological Survey (USGS)
             
           
         
         
          Justice
          
            
            
             National Institute of Justice (NIJ) 
             FBI Science and Technology Branch
             
           
         
         
          Transportation
          
            
            
             Research and Innovative Technology Administration 
             Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering, and Development 
             Federal Highway Administration Research and Technology
             
           
         
         
          Treasury
          
            
            
             Office of Financial Research (OFR)
             
           
         
         
          Veterans Affairs
          
            
            
             Veterans Health Administration Office of Research and Development (ORD)
             
           
         
         
          Executive Officeof the President
          
            
            
             Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) 
              
               U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP) 
               Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program (NITRD) 
               National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI)
              
             
           
         
         
          Legislative branch
          
            
            
             House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
             Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
             Office of Technology Assessment (OTA) (defunct)
             
           
         
         
          Judicial branch
          
            
            
             Federal Judicial Center
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Patriot Act
           
         
         
          
           
            Titles I · II · III · IV · V · VI · VII · VIII · IX · X (History)
           
         
         
          Acts modified
          
            
            
             Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
             Electronic Communications Privacy Act 
             Computer Fraud and Abuse Act 
             Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 
             Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act 
             Money Laundering Control Act 
             Bank Secrecy Act 
             Right to Financial Privacy Act 
             Fair Credit Reporting Act 
             Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 
             Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
             Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             George W. Bush 
             John Ashcroft 
             Alberto Gonzales 
             Patrick Leahy 
             Orrin Hatch 
             Jon Kyl 
             Dianne Feinstein 
             Viet D. Dinh 
             Joe Biden 
             Michael Chertoff 
             Barack Obama 
             Eric Holder 
             Chuck Schumer 
             Lamar Smith 
             Bob Graham 
             Jay Rockefeller 
             Arlen Specter 
             Mike Oxley 
             Dick Armey 
             Paul Sarbanes 
             Trent Lott 
             Tom Daschle 
             Russ Feingold 
             Ellen Huvelle 
             Ron Paul 
             Lisa Murkowski 
             Ron Wyden 
             Dennis Kucinich 
             Larry Craig 
             John E. Sununu 
             Richard Durbin 
             Bernie Sanders 
             Jerry Nadler 
             John Conyers Jr. 
             Butch Otter
             
           
         
         
          Governmentorganizations
          
            
            
             Federal Bureau of Investigation 
             Department of Justice 
             Select Committee on Intelligence 
             Department of the Treasury 
             FinCEN 
             Department of State 
             National Institute of Standards and Technology 
             Customs Service 
             U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
             
           
         
         
          Non-governmentorganizations
          
            
            
             American Civil Liberties Union 
             American Library Association 
             Center for Democracy and Technology 
             Center for Public Integrity 
             Electronic Frontier Foundation 
             Electronic Privacy Information Center 
             Humanitarian Law Project
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Time signal authorities
           
         
         
          
           
            
             
              
                ANFR
                KRISS
                MIKES
                NICT
                NIST
                NPL
                NRC
                NTSC
                PTB
                ROA
                SHN
                VNIIFTRI
               Other
              
              
               
                 
                 
                  TDF
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  HLA
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  MIKES
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  JJY
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  WWVB 
                  WWV 
                  WWVH
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  MSF 
                  BBC (198 kHz)
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  CHU
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  BPC 
                  BPL 
                  BPM
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  DCF77 
                  DCF (EFR)
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  EBC
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  LOL
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                  RBU 
                  RJH (Beta) 
                  RNS (CHAYKA) 
                  RTZ 
                  RWM
                  
                
               
                 
                 
                   BSF 
                   HD2IOA 
                   JN53DV 
                   PPE 
                   YVTO
                  
                
              
             
            
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan) 
              
               2
              
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Institute_of_Standards_and_Technology&amp;oldid=1063302149"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       National Institute of Standards and Technology
       Buildings and structures in Gaithersburg, Maryland
       United States Department of Commerce agencies
       Government agencies established in 1901
       Cryptography organizations
       1901 establishments in the United States
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from February 2017
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from October 2018
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from July 2021
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikisource
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Magyar
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Nordfriisk
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 January 2022, at 07:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
