
 
  
   
  Howard Wainer - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Howard Wainer 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Howard Wainer
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
          (1943-10-26) October 26, 1943 (age&nbsp;78)
          
           Brooklyn, New York
          
        
        
         Nationality
         American
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Princeton UniversityRensselaer Polytechnic Institute
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Unit-weighted regression
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Statistics
        
        
         Institutions
         University of PennsylvaniaUniversity of Chicago
        
        
         Doctoral advisor
         Harold Gulliksen
        
        
         Doctoral students
         David Thissen
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Howard Wainer (born 1943) is an American statistician, past principal research scientist at the Educational Testing Service, adjunct professor of statistics at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and author, known for his contributions in the fields of statistics, psychometrics, and statistical graphics.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
          
          1.1 Early life 
          1.2 Education 
          1.3 Career 
          1.4 Awards and honors 
          1.5 Current status 
           
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Contributions to statistics 
           
        3 Selected publications 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        
       
      Biography 
      Early life 
      Howard Wainer was born Howard Charles Goldhaber in Brooklyn, New York on October 26, 1943. In 1948 his father Meyer Goldhaber, an anatomist by education and a dentist by profession, died of complications from a bleeding ulcer at the age of 35. Howard, his brother and his mother moved in with his mother's parents. After two years his mother married Sam Wainer, a local businessman, and the family relocated to Long Island. Howard was formally adopted by his mother's new husband and took the surname Wainer.  
      Education 
      Early on Wainer showed an aptitude for science and mathematics. In 1960, at the end of his junior year in high school, he was accepted into a National Science Foundation honors program at Columbia University. He spent two hours traveling on subway and bus each way to and from Columbia, learning about Markov chains and number theory in the morning and working on the IBM 650 computer in the afternoon. 
      Wainer's experiences at Columbia motivated him to continue his studies along similar lines. He matriculated at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1961 to study mathematics. It was at R.P.I. that Wainer first encountered psychometrics. There, Professor George Boguslavsky was so impressed with his abilities and enthusiasm that he recommended Wainer for a Psychometric Fellowship at Princeton University under Harold Gulliksen. Wainer received his B.S. from R.P.I. in mathematics in 1965 and a Ph.D. from Princeton in psychometrics in 1968.  
      Career 
      Howard Wainer began his teaching career at Temple University in 1968, staying on as an assistant professor until 1970. After Temple he taught at the University of Chicago, as a member of the Committee on Methodology in the department of Behavioral Sciences until 1977. Wainer then moved to Washington DC to join the Bureau of Social Science Research, a nonprofit organization that focused on policy research. During his time in DC Wainer also joined with Richard Roistacher and Barbara Noble in founding Multiple Technical Services, a small firm that provided statistical and computational advice to the DC research community. In 1980 he moved to Princeton NJ to become a principal research scientist at the Educational Testing Service, a position he held for 21 years. In 2001 he assumed the position of Distinguished Research Scientist at the National Board of Medical Examiners, from which he retired on December 2, 2016. Wainer was also an adjunct professor of statistics at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania from 2002 until 2013.  
      Awards and honors 
      Howard Wainer is the recipient of numerous awards and honors: He is a fellow of the American Statistical Association and the American Educational Research Association. He was given a Career Achievement Award for Contributions to Educational Measurement by the National Council on Measurement in Education in 2007, the Samuel J. Messick Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions from Division 5 of the American Psychological Association in 2009, and the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Psychometric Society in 2013. He also received the ACT/AERA E. F. Lindquist Award for Outstanding Research in Testing &amp; Measurement in 2015. His work on testlets was recognized when he received the Award for Scientific Contribution to a Field of Educational Measurement from the National Council on Measurement in Education in 2006. His book Graphic Discovery was named by Choice as the “Best Math book of 2005”. He was a Distinguished Visiting Lecturer at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, the University of Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands, and the American College Testing organization. He also received the Educational Testing Service’s Senior Scientist Award in 1990.  
      Current status 
      Howard Wainer lives with his wife, Linda Steinberg, in Pennington, New Jersey.  
      Work 
      Contributions to statistics 
      Since 1974 when he published his first article on statistical graphics, an empirical verification of the efficacy of the suspended Rootogram, Howard Wainer has been a tireless advocate for the efficacy of graphics for communicating quantitative phenomena. He is one of the principals responsible for the renewed importance of graphics in statistics. In addition to the three books he authored on graphical methods: Picturing the Uncertain World, Graphic Discovery and Visual Revelations he was also responsible for the English translation of two of the masterworks in the field by the French semiologist Jacques Bertin. 
      Wainer’s approach to the study of graphics has always shown a deep respect for the work of those who had preceded him. In 2007 he arranged for the publication of replica volumes of William Playfair's Atlas as well as his Statistical Breviary, the first books on the subject. In them he collaborated with Ian Spence on an extended introduction to Playfair and a biography of him. 
      Wainer has done extensive work on problems in psychometrics. He has authored, co-authored or edited the principal texts in five of the major areas of the subject: test scoring, test validity, computerized adaptive testing, test fairness, and, most recently, on a theory of testlets. 
      Wainer has published more than 450 articles, chapters and books. His latest book Truth or Truthiness explains how to use evidence to debunk baseless claims. Since 1990 Wainer has written the popular column “Visual Revelations” for Chance magazine. Wainer edited the Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics from 2002 through 2004 as well as being an associate editor of a handful of statistical and psychometric journals. He is currently on the Board of Editors of Significance, the new joint publication of the American Statistical Association and the Royal Statistical Society. 
      He has also served on the front lines of educational practice by working for many years as a consultant for teachers’ unions, with a five-year hiatus when he served on the Princeton Board of Education. He has also served, in many capacities, as a consultant and advisor to government and industry.  
      Selected publications 
      
       Wainer, Howard (2016). Truth or Truthiness: Distinguishing Fact from Fiction by Learning to Think like a Data Scientist. Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1107130579. 
       
        Wainer, Howard (2011). Uneducated Guesses: Using Evidence to Uncover Misguided Education Policies. Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;9780691149288. 
       
        — (1993). Paul W. Holland (ed.). Differential Item Functioning. Routledge. ISBN&nbsp;0805809724. 
       
        — (2000). Visual Revelations: Graphical Tales of Fate and Deception From Napoleon Bonaparte To Ross Perot. Psychology Press. ISBN&nbsp;0805838783. 
       
        — (2000). Computerized Adaptive Testing: A Primer (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Hillsdale, N. J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. ISBN&nbsp;0805835113. 
       
        — &amp; Howard Wainer (2012). A Statistical Guide for the Ethically Perplexed. Chapman and Hall. ISBN&nbsp;978-1439873687.
       
      
       
        — (2013). Medical Illuminations: Using Evidence, Visualization and Statistical Thinking to Improve Healthcare. Oxford University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0199668793.
       
      See References for other publications  
      See also 
      
       Computerized adaptive testing 
       Differential item functioning 
       Test validity
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b 
          "Profiles in Research". Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics. 30 (4): 466. December 21, 2005.  
        ^ J. Ed, Behav. Stats., p.&nbsp;468  
        ^ a b J. Ed, Behav. Stats., p.&nbsp;465  
        ^ J. Ed, Behav. Stats., p.&nbsp;471  
        ^ J. Ed, Behav. Stats., p.&nbsp;472  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (2009). Picturing the Uncertain World: How to Understand, Communicate and Control Uncertainty through Graphical Display. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0691152677.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (2005). Graphic Discovery: A Trout in the Milk and Other Visual Adventures. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press. ISBN&nbsp;0521855543.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (1997). Visual Revelations: Graphical Tales of Fate and Deception from Napoleon Bonaparte to Ross Perot ((second edition, Hillsdale, N. J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2000&nbsp;ed.). New York: Copernicus Books.  
        ^ 
          Bertin, Jacques (1983). Semiology of Graphics. Madison, Wisconsin: University of Wisconsin Press.  
        ^ 
          Bertin, Jacques (1981). Graphics and Graphic Information Processing. Elmsford, N. Y.: Walter de Gruyter.  
        ^ 
          William Playfair (2007). Howard Wainer; Ian Spence (eds.). The Commercial and Political Atlas, Representing, by means of Stained Copper-Plate Charts, The Progress of the Commerce, Revenues, Expenditure, and Debts of England, during the whole of the Eighteenth Century, and The Statistical Breviary; Shewing on a Principle entirely new, the resources of every state and kingdom in Europe; illustrated with Stained Copper-Plate Charts, representing the physical powers of each distinct nation with ease and perspicuity both. New York: Cambridge University Press.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (2001). Test Scoring. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. ISBN&nbsp;0805837663.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (1988). Test Validity. Hillsdale, N. J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.  
        ^ Computerized Adaptive Testing  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (1993). Differential Item Functioning. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (2007). Testlet Response Theory and its Applications. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0521681261.  
        ^ 
          Wainer, Howard (2016). Truth or Truthiness: Distinguishing Fact from Fiction by Learning to Think like a Data Scientist. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-1107130579.  
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Netherlands 
             Sweden
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Howard_Wainer&amp;oldid=993625970"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute alumni
       Princeton University alumni
       1943 births
       Living people
       American statisticians
       Fellows of the American Statistical Association
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 11 December 2020, at 16:26&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
