
 
  
   
  Martin M. Wattenberg - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Martin M. Wattenberg 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       American artist and computer researcher (born 1970)
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Martin M. Wattenberg
          
        
        
         Born
         1970 (age&nbsp;51–52)
          
           United States
          
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Ph.D. Mathematics, U.C. Berkeley
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         History Flow, Many Eyes, Treemap algorithms, Social Data Analysis
        
        
         Awards
         Gold award / ID Magazine Interactive Design (1999), Creative Capital grantee (2006), TR100 (2003)
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         Visualization, interactive art, journalism
        
        
         Institutions
         IBM ResearchGoogle
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Martin M. Wattenberg (born 1970) is an American scientist and artist known for his work with data visualization. He is currently the Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science at the Harvard University School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. 
      Along with Fernanda Viégas, he worked at the Cambridge location of IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center as part of the Visual Communication Lab, and created Many Eyes. In April 2010, Wattenberg and Viégas started a new venture called Flowing Media, Inc., to focus on visualization aimed at consumers and mass audiences. Four months later, both of them joined Google as the co-leaders of the Google's "Big Picture" data visualization group in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Journalism 
        3 Visualization research 
          
          3.1 Collaborative analysis and collective intelligence 
          3.2 Visualization techniques and theory 
           
        4 Artwork 
        5 Publications 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Wattenberg grew up in Amherst, Massachusetts. He received an A.B. from Brown University in 1991, an M.S. from Stanford University in 1992, and Ph.D. in Mathematics from U.C. Berkeley in 1996. From 1996 through 2002, he lived in New York City and worked for Dow Jones, on the personal finance and investing site SmartMoney.com. In 2002 he took a position at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, in its Cambridge, Massachusetts location; in 2004, he founded IBM Research's Visual Communication Lab. In Fall 2021 Wattenberg joined Harvard University as Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science.  
      Journalism 
      While at SmartMoney.com, Wattenberg focused on new forms of interactive web-based journalism. Early work in 1996-1997 ranged from service pieces, such as worksheets to guide financial decisions, to expository graphical narratives on subjects such as bond yield curves. In 1998 Wattenberg created the Map of the Market, which visualized the stock price performance of hundreds of publicly traded companies. The Map was the first web-based treemap and was widely imitated. Subsequently, Wattenberg started a research and development group at SmartMoney, which was responsible for interactive charts, graphs, and simulations, as well as a library of visualization components. Outside of his work at Dow Jones, Wattenberg is known for interactive visualizations that have introduced mass audiences to data sets ranging from baby names to museum collections at NASA and the Smithsonian.  
      Visualization research 
      Collaborative analysis and collective intelligence 
      Wattenberg, in partnership with Fernanda Viégas at IBM, has published widely on collective intelligence and the social use of data visualization. Their work with visualizations such as History Flow and Chromogram led to some of the earliest publications on the dynamics of Wikipedia, including the first scientific study of the repair of vandalism. 
      Wattenberg is one of the founders of IBM's experimental Many Eyes web site, created in 2007 which seeks to make visualization technology accessible to the public. In addition to broad uptake from individuals, the technology from Many Eyes has been used by nonprofits and news outlets such as the New York Times Visualization Lab.  
      Visualization techniques and theory 
      Wattenberg invented or co-invented many visualization techniques. The Map of the Market was based on a new algorithm for treemap layouts (see Treemapping). The Arc Diagram is a novel technique for visualizing structure in long sequences, closely related to linear embeddings of networks, a technique that has since been used by many other designers. Wattenberg and Viégas together introduced several techniques for depicting text: in addition to the history flow technique described above, the two created such text visualizations as the Word Tree and Chromogram. With collaborator Zan Armstrong, Wattenberg developed a new way to visualize Simpson's paradox.  
      Artwork 
      As an artist, Wattenberg uses interactive graphics and visualization as expressive media. He has primarily worked on internet-accessible projects, but has also created installations, videos, and prints. 
      In the 1990s he began to work with information visualization as an artistic medium. For example, his Shape of Song series (1999–2002) depicted the form of musical compositions; this project exists online as well as in prints that have been exhibited in multiple venues. Starrynight (1999), a collaboration with Alexander Galloway and Mark Tribe, provided a new form of social, visual navigation for an online discussion. Idealine (2001), an interactive representation of the online art universe, was the first internet artwork commissioned by the Whitney Museum of American Art, as well as a very early example of an artwork that used "crowdsourcing" to gather data. Wattenberg has also worked with Golan Levin, contributing to the visualization technique used in The Secret Lives of Numbers (2002). 
      Wattenberg frequently works with Marek Walczak, with whom he formed a collaboration known as MW2MW. A key theme of their work is the relationship between language and space. For example, Apartment took inspiration from the concept of a memory palace, turning free-form text entered by a viewer into an architectural floorplan. The piece has appeared in many versions, including online (2000), an installation at the Whitney Museum of American Art (2001) and in many other venues. Other works explore the possibilities of interaction: the Thinking Machine series (2004–2008), for example, is based on a chess-playing program that attempts to best the viewer while displaying its own thinking process. 
      Since 2003, Wattenberg has collaborated with Fernanda Viégas to create interactive works that evoke the joy of "revelation". They have used academic techniques such as history flow to create prints that have been shown in venues such as the New York Museum of Modern Art. The two have also created purely artistic visualizations. For example, the Fleshmap series (2008-2009) portrays aspects of sensuality, and includes work on the web, video, and installations. For example, Fleshmap: Touch provides a collective view of erogenous zones, while Fleshmap: Listen visualizes the language used to describe the body in song lyrics.  
      Publications 
      Key publications:  
      
       2007: Many Eyes: A Site for Visualization at Internet Scale. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, Frank van Ham, Jesse Kriss, Matt McKeon. IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization. 
       2005: Baby Names, Visualization, and Social Data Analysis Martin Wattenberg. IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization. 
       2004: Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, and Kushal Dave. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI). 
       2002: Ordered and quantum treemaps: Making effective use of 2D space to display hierarchies Ben Bederson, Ben Shneiderman, and Martin Wattenberg. ACM Transactions on Graphics, Vol 21, No. 4.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "A New Chapter — Visual Hint". Hint.fm. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ 
           "That was fast! — Visual Hint". Hint.fm. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ 
           "Fernanda B. Viégas". Fernandaviegas.com. 2008-08-31. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ a b 
           Jana, Reena (June 2007). "IBM's Data-Visualization Champion". BusinessWeek Online.  
         ^ 
           Kirsner, Scott (December 2007). "Image Conscious". Fast Company.  
         ^ 
           "Trailblazing visualization experts to join Harvard faculty | Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences". www.seas.harvard.edu. Retrieved 2020-11-15.  
         ^ 
           Eckett, Stephen (2002). Online Investing: 200 Essential Q&amp;a's for the Internet. Harriman House Limited.  
         ^ 
           Baker, Billy (9 August 2001). "He Creates Ways of Seeing Information". The Boston Globe.  
         ^ 
           Mirapaul, Matthew (9 August 2001). "A Site Whose Riches Bob on the Surface". The New York Times.  
         ^ 2004: Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, and Kushal Dave. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI)  
         ^ 
           Shirky, Clay (2008). Here Comes Everybody (book). Penguin.  
         ^ Lines and Bubbles and Bars, Oh My! New Ways to Sift Data, Anne Eisenberg, the New York Times, August 30, 2008.  
         ^ Arc Diagrams: Visualizing Structure in Strings, Martin Wattenberg. IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization, 2002.  
         ^ Visual Complexity Gallery of Arc Diagrams, accessed Sept. 2, 2009.  
         ^ The Word Tree: An Interactive Visual Concordance Martin Wattenberg, Fernanda B. Viégas. IEEE InfoVis 2008  
         ^ Visualizing Activity on Wikipedia with Chromograms, Martin Wattenberg, Fernanda B. Viégas, and Kate Hollenbach. Interact 2007.  
         ^ 
           Armstrong, Zan; Wattenberg, Martin (December 2014). "Visualizing Statistical Mix Effects and Simpson's Paradox". IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics. 20 (12): 2132–2141. doi:10.1109/TVCG.2014.2346297. ISSN&nbsp;1941-0506. PMID&nbsp;26356927.  
         ^ 
           Reas, Casey; Ben (2007). Processing: a programming handbook for visual designers and artists. MIT Press.  
         ^ 
           Dodge, Martin; Kitchin (2007). Atlas of Cyberspace. Addison Wesley.  
         ^ Whitney Museum Artport Idealine, 2001  
         ^ The Secret Lives of Numbers (2002)  
         ^ 
           Bulajic, Viktorija Vesna (2007). Database aesthetics: art in the age of information overflow. University of Minnesota Press.  
         ^ MW2MW home page  
         ^ 
           Blais, Joline; Ippolito, Jon (2006). At the Edge of Art. Thames and Hudson.  
         ^ 
           Altshuler, Bruce (2007). Collecting the New: Museums and Contemporary Art. Princeton University Press.  
         ^ 
           Kurzweil, Ray (2005). The singularity is near: when humans transcend biology. Penguin.  
         ^ 
           Adams, Randy; Gibson, Steve; Arisona, Stefan Muller (2008). Transdisciplinary Digital Art: Sound, Vision and the New Screen: Digital Art. Springer.  
         ^ Revelatory Interfaces, online video of MIT lecture, 2004.  
         ^ Design and the Elastic Mind (Exhibit at the New York Museum of Modern Art, February 24, 2008–May 12, 2008)  
         ^ Inside squash: art and sport confined, Cate McQuaid, The Boston Globe, April 29, 2009.  
         ^ Body Parts In Song: From Hands To Eyes NPR Weekend Edition, August 30, 2008.  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Martin Wattenberg Personal home page for Wattenberg 
       Academic publications listed on IBM's site. 
       Many Eyes Experimental public visualization site. 
       SmartMoney Map of the Market. 
       History flow Project page for Wikipedia visualizations. 
       Name Voyager Visualization of baby names. 
       Fleshmap Site for the "Fleshmap" series of artworks. 
       Google+ Ripples
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: Scientific databases 
          
            
            
             DBLP (computer science) 
             Google Scholar
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Martin_M._Wattenberg&amp;oldid=1071096501"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1970 births
       Living people
       American digital artists
       American technology company founders
       Information visualization experts
       Human–computer interaction
       Human–computer interaction researchers
       IBM employees
       Google employees
       Brown University alumni
       UC Berkeley College of Letters and Science alumni
       Stanford University alumni
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with DBLP identifiers
       Articles with Google Scholar identifiers
       Date of birth missing (living people)
       Place of birth missing (living people)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Français
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 10 February 2022, at 20:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
