
 
  
   
  Moritz Stefaner - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Moritz Stefaner 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Moritz Stefaner, 2010
        
       
      
      Moritz Stefaner is a German data visualization specialist. He is notable for his work for organisations like the OECD, the World Economic Forum, Skype, dpa, and Max Planck Research Society. Stefaner is a multiple winner of the Kantar Information is Beautiful awards. His data visualisation work has been exhibited at Venice Biennale of Architecture and Ars Electronica. He has contributed to Beautiful Visualisation published by Springer and was interviewed for the books New Challenges for Data Design published by Springer and Alberto Cairo's The Functional Art. 
      One of Stefaner's most widely known works is the visualisation of the OECD Better Life Index. Among other notable projects is his interactive installation On Broadway, his work for the FIFA, and his design of the new OECD data portal. 
      With Enrico Bertini, he produces Data Stories, a podcast on data visualization. Stefaner studied Cognitive Science (B.Sc., University of Osnabrück) and Interface Design (M.A., University of Applied Sciences Potsdam). He lives in Lilienthal, Germany.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c "Stefaner's personal page - About". truth-and-beauty.net. Retrieved 2015-09-26.  
         ^ 
           "2014 - The Winners — Information is Beautiful Awards". www.informationisbeautifulawards.com. Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
         ^ 
           Iliinsky, Julie Steele, Noah. Beautiful Visualization.  
         ^ 
           New Challenges for Data Design | David Bihanic | Springer.  
         ^ 
           The functional art | Alberto Cairo | Peachpit Press.  
         ^ 
           "OECD Better Life Index". www.oecdbetterlifeindex.org. Retrieved 2015-09-26.  
         ^ 
           Manovich., Daniel Goddemeyer, Moritz Stefaner, Dominikus Baur, Lev. "ON BROADWAY". on-broadway.nyc. Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
         ^ 
           "FIFA development work around the world". FlowingData. 26 November 2012. Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
         ^ 
           "OECD Data Portal". Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
         ^ 
           "Data Stories".  
         ^ 
           "Data visualization freelancing". FlowingData. 12 August 2011. Retrieved 2015-09-27.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Moritz_Stefaner&amp;oldid=1002053707"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Living people
       German computer scientists
       Information graphic designers
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Year of birth missing (living people)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Deutsch
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 22 January 2021, at 16:42&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
