
 
  
   
  Multi-document summarization - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Multi-document summarization 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Multi-document summarization"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (January 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Multi-document summarization is an automatic procedure aimed at extraction of information from multiple texts written about the same topic. The resulting summary report allows individual users, such as professional information consumers, to quickly familiarize themselves with information contained in a large cluster of documents. In such a way, multi-document summarization systems are complementing the news aggregators performing the next step down the road of coping with information overload.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Key benefits and difficulties 
        2 Technological challenges 
        3 Real-life systems 
        4 Bibliography 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Key benefits and difficulties 
      Multi-document summarization creates information reports that are both concise and comprehensive. With different opinions being put together &amp; outlined, every topic is described from multiple perspectives within a single document. While the goal of a brief summary is to simplify information search and cut the time by pointing to the most relevant source documents, comprehensive multi-document summary should in theory contain the required information, hence limiting the need for accessing original files to cases when refinement is required. In practice, it is hard to summarize multiple documents with conflicting views and biases. In fact, it is almost impossible to achieve clear extractive summarization of documents with conflicting views. Abstractive summarization is the preferred venue in this case. 
      Automatic summaries present information extracted from multiple sources algorithmically, without any editorial touch or subjective human intervention, thus making it completely unbiased. The difficulties remain, if doing automatic extractive summaries of documents with conflicting views.  
      Technological challenges 
      The multi-document summarization task is more complex than summarizing a single document, even a long one. The difficulty arises from thematic diversity within a large set of documents. A good summarization technology aims to combine the main themes with completeness, readability, and concision. The Document Understanding Conferences, conducted annually by NIST, have developed sophisticated evaluation criteria for techniques accepting the multi-document summarization challenge. 
      An ideal multi-document summarization system not only shortens the source texts, but also presents information organized around the key aspects to represent diverse views. Success produces an overview of a given topic. Such text compilations should also basic requirements for an overview text compiled by a human. The multi-document summary quality criteria are as follows:  
      
       clear structure, including an outline of the main content, from which it is easy to navigate to the full text sections 
       text within sections is divided into meaningful paragraphs 
       gradual transition from more general to more specific thematic aspects 
       good readability.
       
      The latter point deserves an additional note. Care is taken to ensure that the automatic overview shows:  
      
       no paper-unrelated "information noise" from the respective documents (e.g., web pages) 
       no dangling references to what is not mentioned or explained in the overview 
       no text breaks across a sentence 
       no semantic redundancy.
       
      Real-life systems 
      The multi-document summarization technology is now coming of age - a view supported by a choice of advanced web-based systems that are currently available.  
      
       ReviewChomp presents summaries of customer reviews for any given product or service. Some products have thousands of online reviews which renders the reviews unreadable by humans in real time. Search for the product or service is performed by the website. 
       Ultimate Research Assistant - performs text mining on Internet search results to help summarize and organize them and make it easier for the user to perform online research. Specific text mining techniques used by the tool include concept extraction, text summarization, hierarchical concept clustering (e.g., automated taxonomy generation), and various visualization techniques, including tag clouds and mind maps. 
       iResearch Reporter - Commercial Text Extraction and Text Summarization system, free demo site accepts user-entered query, passes it on to Google search engine, retrieves multiple relevant documents, produces categorized, easily readable natural language summary reports covering multiple documents in retrieved set, all extracts linked to original documents on the Web, post-processing, entity extraction, event and relationship extraction, text extraction, extract clustering, linguistic analysis, multi-document, full text, natural language processing, categorization rules, clustering, linguistic analysis, text summary construction tool set. 
       Newsblaster is a system that helps users find news that is of the most interest to them. The system automatically collects, clusters, categorizes, and summarizes news from several sites on the web (CNN, Reuters, Fox News, etc.) on a daily basis, and it provides users an interface to browse the results. 
       NewsInEssence may be used to retrieve and summarize a cluster of articles from the web. It can start from a URL and retrieve documents that are similar, or it can retrieve documents that match a given set of keywords. NewsInEssence also downloads news articles daily and produces news clusters from them. 
       NewsFeed Researcher is a news portal performing continuous automatic summarization of documents initially clustered by the news aggregators (e.g., Google News). NewsFeed Researcher is backed by a free online engine covering major events related to business, technology, U.S. and international news. This tool is also available in on-demand mode allowing a user to build a summaries on selected topics. 
       Scrape This is like a search engine, but instead of providing links to the most relevant websites based on a query, it scrapes the pertinent information off of the relevant websites and provides the user with a consolidated multi-document summary, along with dictionary definitions, images, and videos. 
       JistWeb is a query specific multiple document summariser.
       
      As auto-generated multi-document summaries increasingly resemble the overviews written by a human, their use of extracted text snippets may one day face copyright issues in relation to the fair use copyright concept.  
      Bibliography 
      
       Günes Erkan; Dragomir R. Radev (1 December 2004). "LexRank: Graph-based Lexical Centrality as Salience in Text Summarization". Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. 22: 457–479. arXiv:1109.2128. doi:10.1613/JAIR.1523. ISSN&nbsp;1076-9757. Wikidata&nbsp;Q81312697. 
       Dragomir R. Radev, Hongyan Jing, Malgorzata Styś, and Daniel Tam. Centroid-based summarization of multiple documents. Information Processing and Management, 40:919–938, December 2004.  
       Kathleen R. McKeown and Dragomir R. Radev. Generating summaries of multiple news articles. In Proceedings, ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval SIGIR'95, pages 74–82, Seattle, Washington, July 1995.  
       C.-Y. Lin, E. Hovy, "From single to multi-document summarization: A prototype system and its evaluation", In "Proceedings of the ACL", pp.&nbsp;457–464, 2002 
       Kathleen McKeown, Rebecca J. Passonneau, David K. Elson, Ani Nenkova, Julia Hirschberg, "Do Summaries Help? A Task-Based Evaluation of Multi-Document Summarization", SIGIR’05, Salvador, Brazil, August 15–19, 2005  
       R. Barzilay, N. Elhadad, K. R. McKeown, "Inferring strategies for sentence ordering in multidocument news summarization", Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, v. 17, pp.&nbsp;35–55, 2002 
       M. Soubbotin, S. Soubbotin, "Trade-Off Between Factors Influencing Quality of the Summary", Document Understanding Workshop (DUC), Vancouver, B.C., Canada, October 9–10, 2005  
       C Ravindranath Chowdary, and P. Sreenivasa Kumar. "Esum: an efficient system for query-specific multi-document summarization." In ECIR (Advances in Information Retrieval), pp.&nbsp;724–728. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009.
       
      See also 
      
       Automatic summarization 
       Text mining 
       News aggregators
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ 
           "Document Understanding Conferences". Nlpir.nist.gov. 2014-09-09. Retrieved 2016-01-10.  
         ^ 
           "Generate Research Report". Ultimate Research Assistant. Retrieved 2016-01-10.  
         ^ 
           "iResearch Reporter service". Iresearch-reporter.com. Archived from the original on 2013-06-09. Retrieved 2016-01-10.  
         ^  Archived April 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^  Archived April 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           "News Feed Researcher | General Stuff". Newsfeedresearcher.com. Retrieved 2016-01-10.  
         ^  Archived September 19, 2009, at the Wayback Machine  
         ^  Archived May 29, 2013, at the Wayback Machine  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Document Understanding Conferences 
       Columbia NLP Projects 
       NewsInEssence: Web-based News Summarization 
       ReviewChomp
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Multi-document_summarization&amp;oldid=986613170"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Natural language processing
       Information retrieval genres
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles needing additional references from January 2016
       All articles needing additional references
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Српски / srpski
       Tiếng Việt
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 November 2020, at 23:08&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
