
 
  
   
  Gaspard Monge - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Gaspard Monge 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       French mathematician, inventor of descriptive geometry and father of differential geometry (1746–1818)
       
      
      
       "Monge" redirects here. For other uses, see Monge (disambiguation).
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Gaspard Monge
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
         (1746-05-09)9 May 1746
          
           Beaune, Côte-d'Or, France
          
        
        
         Died
         28 July 1818(1818-07-28) (aged&nbsp;72)
          
           Paris, France
          
        
        
         Resting place
         Père Lachaise Cemetery
        
        
         Nationality
         French
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Descriptive geometryTransportation theory
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         mathematics, engineering, education
        
        
         Notable students
         Jean-Baptiste BiotCharles DupinSylvestre François LacroixJean-Victor Poncelet
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Gaspard Monge, Comte de Péluse (9 May 1746 – 28 July 1818) was a French mathematician, commonly presented as the inventor of descriptive geometry, (the mathematical basis of) technical drawing, and the father of differential geometry. During the French Revolution he served as the Minister of the Marine, and was involved in the reform of the French educational system, helping to found the École Polytechnique.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
          
          1.1 Early life 
          1.2 Career 
          1.3 1789 and after 
           
        2 Work 
        3 Selected publications 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Early life 
      Monge was born at Beaune, Côte-d'Or, the son of a merchant. He was educated at the college of the Oratorians at Beaune. In 1762 he went to the Collège de la Trinité at Lyon, where, one year after he had begun studying, he was made a teacher of physics at the age of just seventeen. 
      After finishing his education in 1764 he returned to Beaune, where he made a large-scale plan of the town, inventing the methods of observation and constructing the necessary instruments; the plan was presented to the town, and is still preserved in their library. An officer of engineers who saw it wrote to the commandant of the École Royale du Génie at Mézières, recommending Monge to him and he was given a job as a draftsman. L. T. C. Rolt, an engineer and historian of technology, credited Monge with the birth of engineering drawing. When in the Royal School, he became a member of Freemasonry, initiated into ″L’Union parfaite″ lodge.  
      Career 
      Those studying at the officer school were exclusively drawn from the aristocracy, so he was not allowed admission to the institution itself. His manual skill was highly regarded, but his mathematical skills were not made use of. Nevertheless, he worked on the development of his ideas in his spare time. At this time he came to contact with Charles Bossut, the professor of mathematics at the École Royale du Génie. "I was a thousand times tempted," he said long afterwards, "to tear up my drawings in disgust at the esteem in which they were held, as if I had been good for nothing better." 
      After a year at the École Royale, Monge was asked to produce a plan for a fortification in such a way as to optimise its defensive arrangement. There was an established method for doing this which involved lengthy calculations but Monge devised a way of solving the problems by using drawings. At first his solution was not accepted, since it had not taken the time judged to be necessary, but upon examination the value of the work was recognised, and Monge's exceptional abilities were recognised. 
      After Bossut left the École Royale du Génie, Monge took his place in January 1769, and in 1770 he was also appointed instructor in experimental physics. 
      In 1777, Monge married Cathérine Huart, who owned a forge. This led Monge to develop an interest in metallurgy. In 1780 he became a member of the French Academy of Sciences; his friendship with chemist C. L. Berthollet began at this time. In 1783, after leaving Mézières, he was, on the death of É. Bézout, appointed examiner of naval candidates. Although pressed by the minister to prepare a complete course of mathematics, he declined to do so on the grounds that this would deprive Mme Bézout of her only income, that from the sale of the textbooks written by her late husband. In 1786 he wrote and published his Traité élémentaire de la statique.  
      1789 and after 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Monge's bust in Le Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris
        
       
       
      The French Revolution completely changed the course of Monge's career. He was a strong supporter of the Revolution, and in 1792, on the creation by the Legislative Assembly of an executive council, Monge accepted the office of Minister of the Marine, and held this office from 10 August 1792 to 10 April 1793, when he resigned. When the Committee of Public Safety made an appeal to the academics to assist in the defence of the republic, he applied himself wholly to these operations, and distinguished himself by his energy, writing the Description Le l'art de Fabriquer Les canons and Avis aux ouvriers en fer sur la fabrication de l'acier. 
      He took a very active part in the measures for the establishment of the Ecole Normale (which existed only during the first four months of the year 1795), and of the school for public works, afterwards the École Polytechnique, and was at each of them professor for descriptive geometry. Géométrie descriptive. Leçons données aux écoles normales was published in 1799 from transcriptions of his lectures given in 1795. He later published Application de l'analyse à la géométrie, which enlarged on the Lectures. 
      From May 1796 to October 1797 Monge was in Italy with C.L. Berthollet and some artists to select the paintings and sculptures being levied from the Italians. While there he became friendly with Napoleon Bonaparte. Upon his return to France, he was appointed as the Director of the École Polytechnique, but early in 1798 he was sent to Italy on a mission that ended in the establishment of the short-lived Roman Republic. 
      From there Monge joined Napoleon's expedition to Egypt, taking part with Berthollet in the scientific work of the Institut d'Égypte and the Egyptian Institute of Sciences and Arts. They accompanied Bonaparte to Syria, and returned with him in 1798 to France. Monge was appointed president of the Egyptian commission, and he resumed his connection with the École Polytechnique. His later mathematical papers are published (1794–1816) in the Journal and the Correspondence of the École Polytechnique. On the formation of the Sénat conservateur he was appointed a member of that body, with an ample provision and the title of count of Pelusium (Comte de Péluse), and he became the Senate conservateur's president during 1806–7. Then on the fall of Napoleon he had all of his honours taken away, and he was even excluded from the list of members of the reconstituted Institute. 
      Napoleon Bonaparte stated Monge was an atheist. His remains were first interred in a mausoleum in Le Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris and later transferred to the Panthéon in Paris. 
      A statue portraying him was erected in Beaune in 1849. Monge's name is one of the 72 names inscribed on the base of the Eiffel Tower. 
      Since 4 November 1992 the Marine Nationale operate the MRIS Monge, named after him.  
      Work 
      Between 1770 and 1790 Monge contributed various papers on mathematics and physics to the Memoirs of the Academy of Turin, the Mémoires des savantes étrangers of the Academy of Paris, the Mémoires of the same Academy, and the Annales de chimie, including Sur la théorie des déblais et des remblais" (Mém. de l’acad. de Paris, 1781), which is an elegant investigation of the problem with earthworks referred to in the title and establishes in connection with it his capital discovery of the curves of curvature of a surface. It is also noteworthy to mention that in his Mémoire sur quelques phénomènes de la vision Monge proposed an early implicit explanation of the color constancy phenomenon based on several known observations. 
      Leonhard Euler, in his 1760 paper on curvature in the Berlin Memoirs, had considered, not the normals of the surface, but the normals of the plane sections through a particular normal, so that the question of the intersection of successive normals of the surface had never presented itself to him. Monge's paper gives the ordinary differential equation of the curves of curvature, and establishes the general theory in a very satisfactory manner; the application to the interesting particular case of the ellipsoid was first made by him in a later paper in 1795. 
      Monge's 1781 memoir is also the earliest known anticipation of Linear Programming type of problems, in particular of the transportation problem. Related to that, the Monge soil-transport problem leads to a weak-topology definition of a distance between distributions rediscovered many times since by such as L. V. Kantorovich, Paul Lévy, Leonid Vaseršteĭn, and others; and bearing their names in various combinations in various contexts. 
      Another of his papers in the volume for 1783 relates to the production of water by the combustion of hydrogen. Monge's results had been anticipated by Henry Cavendish. 
        
      Selected publications 
      
       1781: Mémoire sur la théorie des déblais et des remblais De l'Imprimerie Royale. 
       1793: (with Alexandre-Théophile Vandermonde and Claude-Louis Berthollet) Avis aux ouvriers en fer, sur la fabrication de l'acier. Tome 8 (Advice to ironworkers, on the manufacture of steel) 
       1794: Description de l'art de fabriquer des canons (Description of the art of making cannon) 
       1795: Application d'analyse à la géométrie 
       1799: Géométrie descriptive. Leçons données aux écoles normales (Descriptive Geometry) 
       1807: Application de l'analyse à la géométrie, à l'usage de l'Ecole impériale polytechnique. 
       1810: (with Jean Nicolas Pierre Hachette) Traité élémentaire de statique, a l'usage des écoles de la Marine, chez Courcier, Imprimeur-libraire, pour les mathematiques, quai des Augustins, 1852 translation: An elementary treatise on statics.
       
      See also 
      
       History of the metre 
       Monge array 
       Monge cone 
       Monge equation 
       Monge patch 
       Monge point 
       Monge–Ampère equation 
       Monge's theorem 
       Clebsch representation 
       Earth mover's distance 
       Seconds pendulum 
       Transportation theory
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b Sooyoung Chang, Academic Genealogy of Mathematicians, World Scientific, 2010, p. 93.  
        ^ "Registres paroissiaux et/ou d'état civil&nbsp;: 16 janvier 1745 – 1746"  (in French). Archives of the Department of Côte-d'Or. p.&nbsp;174/281. FRAD021EC 57/044. Retrieved 8 May 2018.  
        ^ 
          "Monfredy (1845) to Mongé (1831)", Fichiers de l'état civil reconstitué  (in French), Paris Archives, p.&nbsp;44/51, V3E/D 1076, retrieved 8 May 2018  
        ^ Albrecht Dürer and Guarino Guarini published works establishing the field before Monge.  
        ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z aa 
          Arthur Cayley (1911). "Monge, Gaspard"&nbsp;. In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol.&nbsp;18 (11th&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;709–710.  
        ^ 
          O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Gaspard Monge", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews  
        ^ a b c 
          J.J., O'Connor and; Robertson, E.F. "Gaspard Monge". School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of St Andrews, Scotland. Retrieved 26 March 2012.  
        ^ 
          Rolt, L.T.C. (1957), Isambard Kingdom Brunel: A Biography, Longmans Green, LCCN&nbsp;57003475.  
        ^ Alain Queruel, Les franc-maçons de l'Expédition d'Egypte (Editions du Cosmogone, 2012). Snezana Lawrence et Mark McCartney, Mathematicians and their Gods&nbsp;: Interactions between mathematics and religious beliefs (OUP Oxford, 2015). Emmanuel Pierrat et Laurent Kupferman, Le Paris des Francs-Maçons (Le Cherche Midi, 2013)  
        ^ "Napoleon replies: "How comes it, then, that Laplace was an atheist? At the Institute neither he nor Monge, nor Berthollet, nor Lagrange believed in God. But they did not like to say so." Baron Gaspard Gourgaud, Talks of Napoleon at St. Helena with General Baron Gourgaud (1904), page 274.  
        ^ 
          Vincent Cronin (1983). The view from planet Earth: man looks at the cosmos. Quill. p.&nbsp;164. ISBN&nbsp;9780688014797. Yet, sailing to Egypt, he had lain on deck, asking his scientists whether the planets were inhabited, how old the Earth was, and whether it would perish by fire or by flood. Many, like his friend Gaspard Monge, the first man to liquefy a gas, were atheists.
       
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Gaspard Monge at Wikimedia Commons 
       
        O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Gaspard Monge", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews 
       An Elementary Treatise on Statics with a Biographical Notice of the Author (Biddle, Philadelphia, 1851). 
       An elementary treatise on descriptive geometry, with a theory of shadows and of perspective (Weale, London, 1851). 
       Géométrie descriptive. Leçons données aux Écoles normales, l'an 3 de la République; Par Gaspard Monge, de l'Institut national (Baudouin, Paris, 1798) 
       Portrait of Gaspard Monge from the Lick Observatory Records Digital Archive, UC Santa Cruz Library's Digital Collections 
       Gaspard Monge (1789) "Mémoire sur quelques phenomenes de la vision." Annales de Chimie. Ser. 1, bk. 3 p.&nbsp;131–147 – digital facsimile from the Linda Hall Library 
       
        "Monge, Gaspard"&nbsp;. New International Encyclopedia. 1905.
       
       
       
         
         Political offices 
         
         
         Preceded&nbsp;by
          
           François Joseph de Gratet, vicomte Dubouchage
            
          Minister of the Navy and the Colonies 10 August 1792 – 10 April 1793  
         Succeeded&nbsp;by
          
           Jean Dalbarade
           
         
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Ministers of the French National Convention (10 August 1792 to 1 April 1794)
           
         
         
          Foreign Affairs
          
            
            
             Pierre Henri Hélène Marie Lebrun-Tondu 
             François Louis Michel Chemin Deforgues
             
           
         
         
          War
          
            
            
             Joseph Marie Servan de Gerbey 
             Jean-Nicolas Pache 
             Pierre Riel de Beurnonville 
             Jean Baptiste Noël Bouchotte
             
           
         
         
          Justice
          
            
            
             Georges Danton 
             Dominique Joseph Garat 
             Louis-Jérôme Gohier
             
           
         
         
          Interior
          
            
            
             Jean-Marie Roland, vicomte de la Platière 
             Dominique Joseph Garat 
             Jules-François Paré
             
           
         
         
          Finance
          
            
            
             Étienne Clavière 
             Louis Grégoire Deschamps Destournelles
             
           
         
         
          Navy and Colonies
          
            
            
             Gaspard Monge 
             Jean Dalbarade
             
           
         
         
          
           
            Preceded by Ministers of Louis XVI of France • Followed by French Directory
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Netherlands 
             Poland 
             Sweden 
             Vatican
             
           
         
         
          Art research institutes
          
            
            
             Scientific illustrators 
             Artist Names (Getty)
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             Léonore (France) 
              
               1
               
             Social Networks and Archival Context 
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gaspard_Monge&amp;oldid=1063209664"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1746 births
       1818 deaths
       18th-century French mathematicians
       19th-century French mathematicians
       French atheists
       French Freemasons
       People from Beaune
       Commission des Sciences et des Arts members
       Differential geometers
       Burials at the Panthéon, Paris
       Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery
       Members of the Sénat conservateur
       Members of the French Academy of Sciences
       Ministers of Marine and the Colonies
       École Normale Supérieure faculty
       18th-century French inventors
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 French-language sources (fr)
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
       Articles with short description
       Articles with long short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from May 2021
       Articles with hCards
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NTA identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with SELIBR identifiers
       Articles with VcBA identifiers
       Articles with DSI identifiers
       Articles with ULAN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with Léonore identifiers
       Articles with SNAC-ID identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       AC with 25 elements
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       تۆرکجه
       Беларуская
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Latina
       Magyar
       Македонски
       Malagasy
       مصرى
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk nynorsk
       Piemontèis
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 January 2022, at 21:29&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
