
 
  
   
  Imaging - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Imaging 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Imaging science)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       For the software, see Imaging for Windows.
       
       
       
         
          
         Look up imaging in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Imaging"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (January 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       Representation or reproduction of an object's form
       
      Imaging is the representation or reproduction of an object's form; especially a visual representation (i.e., the formation of an image). 
      Imaging technology is the application of materials and methods to create, preserve, or duplicate images. 
      Imaging science is a multidisciplinary field concerned with the generation, collection, duplication, analysis, modification, and visualization of images, including imaging things that the human eye cannot detect. As an evolving field it includes research and researchers from physics, mathematics, electrical engineering, computer vision, computer science, and perceptual psychology. 
      Imager are imaging sensors.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Imaging chain 
        2 Subfields 
        3 Methodologies 
        4 Examples 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 Further reading 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Imaging chain 
      The foundation of imaging science as a discipline is the "imaging chain" – a conceptual model describing all of the factors which must be considered when developing a system for creating visual renderings (images). In general, the links of the imaging chain include:  
      
       The human visual system. Designers must also consider the psychophysical processes which take place in human beings as they make sense of information received through the visual system. 
       The subject of the image. When developing an imaging system, designers must consider the observables associated with the subjects which will be imaged. These observables generally take the form of emitted or reflected energy, such as electromagnetic energy or mechanical energy. 
       The capture device. Once the observables associated with the subject are characterized, designers can then identify and integrate the technologies needed to capture those observables. For example, in the case of consumer digital cameras, those technologies include optics for collecting energy in the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, and electronic detectors for converting the electromagnetic energy into an electronic signal. 
       The processor. For all digital imaging systems, the electronic signals produced by the capture device must be manipulated by an algorithm which formats the signals so they can be displayed as an image. In practice, there are often multiple processors involved in the creation of a digital image. 
       The display. The display takes the electronic signals which have been manipulated by the processor and renders them on some visual medium. Examples include paper (for printed, or "hard copy" images), television, computer monitor, or projector.
       
      Note that some imaging scientists will include additional "links" in their description of the imaging chain. For example, some will include the "source" of the energy which "illuminates" or interacts with the subject of the image. Others will include storage and/or transmission systems.  
      Subfields 
      Subfields within imaging science include: image processing, computer vision, 3D computer graphics, animations, atmospheric optics, astronomical imaging, biological imaging, digital image restoration, digital imaging, color science, digital photography, holography, magnetic resonance imaging, medical imaging, microdensitometry, optics, photography, remote sensing, radar imaging, radiometry, silver halide, ultrasound imaging, photoacoustic imaging, thermal imaging, visual perception, and various printing technologies.  
      Methodologies 
      
       Acoustic imaging 
       Chemical imaging, the simultaneous measurement of spectra and pictures 
       Digital imaging, creating digital images, generally by scanning or through digital photography 
       Disk image, a file which contains the exact content of a data storage medium 
       Document imaging, replicating documents commonly used in business 
       Geophysical imaging 
       Industrial process imaging 
       Medical imaging, creating images of the human body or parts of it, to diagnose or examine disease 
        
         Medical optical imaging 
         Magnetic resonance imaging
         
       Molecular imaging 
       Radar imaging, or imaging radar, for obtaining an image of an object, not just its location and speed 
       Range imaging, for obtaining images with depth information 
       Reprography, reproduction of graphics through electrical and mechanical means 
        
         Cinematography 
         Photography, the process of creating still images 
         Xerography, the method of photocopying
         
       Speckle imaging, a method of shift-and-add for astronomical imaging 
       Stereo imaging, an aspect of sound recording and reproduction concerning spatial locations of the performers 
       Thermography, infrared imaging 
       Tactile imaging, also known as elastography
       
      Examples 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         False-color image from a thermographic camera
        
       
       
      Imaging technology materials and methods include:  
      
       Computer graphics 
        
         Virtual camera system used in computer and video games and virtual cinematography
         
       Microfilm and Micrographics 
       Visual arts 
        
         Etching 
         Drawing and Technical drawing 
         Film 
         Painting 
         Photography 
          
           Multiple-camera setup enables stereoscopy and stereophotogrammetry 
           Light-field camera (basically refocusable photography)
           
         Printmaking 
         Sculpture
         
       Infrared 
       Radar imagery 
       Ultrasound 
       Multi-spectral image 
       Electro-optical sensor 
       Charge-coupled device 
       Ground-penetrating radar 
       Electron microscope 
       Imagery analysis 
       Medical radiography 
       Industrial radiography 
       LIDAR 
       Structured-light 3D scanner
       
      See also 
      
      
       Main category: Imaging
       
      
       Image development (disambiguation) 
       Image processing 
       Society for Imaging Science and Technology 
       The Imaging Science Journal
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Joseph P. Hornak, Encyclopedia of Imaging Science and Technology (John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2002) ISBN&nbsp;9780471332763  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Harrison H. Barrett and Kyle J. Myers, Foundations of Image Science (John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2004) 
        ISBN&nbsp;0471153001 
       Ronald N. Bracewell, Fourier Analysis and Imaging (Kluwer Academic, 2003) 
        ISBN&nbsp;0306481871 
       Roger L. Easton, Jr., Fourier Methods in Imaging (John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2010) 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780470689837 DOI 10.1002/9780470660102 
       Robert D. Fiete, Modeling the Imaging Chain of Digital Cameras (SPIE Press, 2010) 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780819483393
       
      External links 
      
       Carlson Center for Imaging Science at RIT Research center that offers B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Imaging Science. 
       The University of Arizona College of Optical Sciences offers an image science track for the M.S and Ph.D. degree in optical sciences. 
       Science de l'image et des médias numériques Bachelor of image science and digital media unique in Canada. 
       Image Sciences Institute, Utrecht, Netherlands Utrecht University Institute for Image Sciences - focuses on fundamental and applied research in specifically medical image processing and acquisition. 
       Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science - dedicated to using imaging to improve health-care and for advancing knowledge in the biological sciences.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Imaging&amp;oldid=1058103614"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Imaging
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from January 2021
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Français
       Italiano
       עברית
       日本語
       Polski
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 December 2021, at 13:40&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
