
 
  
   
  Fernanda Viégas - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Fernanda Viégas 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Brazilian-American computer scientist (born 1971)
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Fernanda Viégas
          
        
        
         
        
        
         Born
         
          
           Fernanda Bertini Viégas
          1971 (age&nbsp;50–51)
          
           Brazil
          
        
        
         Alma&nbsp;mater
         Ph.D. Media Arts &amp; Sciences, MIT Media Laboratory
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         History Flow, Many Eyes, Chat Circles
        
        
         
          Scientific career
        
        
         Fields
         visualization, design, interactive art, journalism
        
        
         Institutions
         IBM ResearchGoogle
        
        
          
        
       
       
      Fernanda Bertini Viégas (born 1971) is a Brazilian scientist and designer, whose work focuses on the social, collaborative and artistic aspects of information visualization.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Biography 
        2 Work 
          
          2.1 Social visualization 
          2.2 Collective intelligence and public visualization 
          2.3 Art 
           
        3 Publications 
        4 References 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Biography 
      Viégas received a Ph.D. in Media Arts and Sciences from the MIT Media Lab in 2005. The same year she began work at the Cambridge, Massachusetts location of IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center as part of the Visual Communication Lab. 
      In April 2010, she and Martin M. Wattenberg started a new venture called Flowing Media, Inc., to focus on visualization aimed at consumers and mass audiences. Four months later, both of them joined Google as the co-leaders of the Google's "Big Picture" data visualization group in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
      Work 
      Social visualization 
      Viégas began her research while at the MIT Media Lab, focusing on graphical interfaces for online communication. Her Chat Circles system introduced ideas such as proximity-based filtering of conversation and a visual archive of chat history displaying the overall rhythm and form of a conversation. Her email visualization designs (including PostHistory and Themail) are the foundation for many other systems; her findings on how visualizations are often used for storytelling influenced subsequent work on the collaborative aspects of visualization. While at MIT, she also studied usage of Usenet and blogs.  
      Collective intelligence and public visualization 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Fernanda Viégas, "Chromogram," 2006
        
       
       
      A second stream of work, in partnership with Martin Wattenberg, centers on collective intelligence and the public use of data visualization. 
      Her work with visualizations such as History Flow and Chromogram led to some of the earliest publications on the dynamics of Wikipedia, including the first scientific study of the repair of vandalism. 
      Viégas is one of the founders of IBM's experimental Many Eyes website, created in 2007, which seeks to make visualization technology accessible to the public. In addition to broad uptake from individuals, the technology from Many Eyes has been used by nonprofits and news outlets such as the New York Times Visualization Lab.  
      Art 
      Viégas is also known for her artistic work, which explores the medium of visualization for explorations of emotionally charged digital data. An early example is Artifacts of the Presence Era, an interactive installation at the Boston Center for the Arts in 2003, which featured a video-based timeline of visitor interactions with the museum. She often works with Martin Wattenberg to visualize emotionally charged information. An example of these works is their piece "Web Seer", which is a visualization of Google Suggest. The Fleshmap series (started in 2008) uses visualization to portray aspects of sensuality, and includes work on the web, video, and installations. In 2012, she launched the Wind Map project, which displays continuously updated forecasts of wind patterns across the United States.  
      Publications 
      
       Chat Circles. Fernanda B. Viégas and Judith Donath. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI), 1999  
       Visualizing Conversations, Judith Donath, Karrie Karahalios and Fernanda B. Viégas . Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, Vol. 4, Number 4, June 1999  
       Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, and Kushal Dave. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI), 2004  
       Many Eyes: A Site for Visualization at Internet Scale. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, Frank van Ham, Jesse Kriss, Matt McKeon. IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization, 2007  
       "Luscious". Fernanda Viégas &amp; Martin Wattenberg. Book chapter in Net Works: Case Studies in Web Art and Design. Ed. xtine burrough, Routledge 2011 
       "Beautiful History". Fernanda Viégas &amp; Martin Wattenberg. Book chapter in Beautiful Visualization: Looking at Data Through the Eyes of Experts. Ed. Julie Steele, Noah Iliinsky. O'Reilly Media, 2010.
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "A New Chapter — Visual Hint". Hint.fm. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ 
           "That was fast! — Visual Hint". Hint.fm. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ 
           "Fernanda B. Viégas". Fernandaviegas.com. 2008-08-31. Retrieved 2010-09-04.  
         ^ Chat Circles. Fernanda B. Viégas and Judith Donath. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI), 1999  
         ^ Baby Names, Visualization, and Social Data Analysis Martin Wattenberg. InfoVis 2005  
         ^ Jeffrey Rosen, Your Blog or Mine?, New York Times Magazine, December 19, 2004  
         ^ 2004: Studying Cooperation and Conflict between Authors with history flow Visualizations. Fernanda B. Viégas, Martin Wattenberg, and Kushal Dave. ACM Conference on Computer-Human Interaction (CHI)  
         ^ Anne Eisenberg, Lines and Bubbles and Bars, Oh My! New Ways to Sift Data, New York Times, August 30, 2008  
         ^ Folha de S.Paulo, Many Eyes é criação de brasileira, November 1, 2008'.  
         ^ New York Times Visualization Lab Archived 2009-02-14 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ 
           "Fernanda Viégas".  
         ^ Cate McQuaid, Inside squash: art and sport confined, Boston Globe, April 29, 2009  
         ^ "The Week In Ideas - On With The Wind", The Wall Street Journal, April 6, 2012.  
         ^ Chat Circles  
         ^ 
           Donath, Judith (2006). "Visualizing Conversation". Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication. 4 (4). doi:10.1111/j.1083-6101.1999.tb00107.x. S2CID&nbsp;14364077.  
         ^ CHI 2004  
         ^ IEEE Xplor  
         ^ Net Works: Case Studies In Web Art and Design. http://www.routledge.com/books/details/9780415882224/  
         ^ Beautiful Visualization: Looking at Data Through the Eyes of Experts. http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920000617.do  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
       Fernanda B. Viégas Personal home page for Viégas 
       Academic publications listed on IBM's site. 
       Many Eyes Experimental public visualization site.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: Scientific databases 
          
            
            
             Google Scholar
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fernanda_Viégas&amp;oldid=1067591203"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1971 births
       Living people
       Information visualization experts
       Human–computer interaction
       Human–computer interaction researchers
       Brazilian contemporary artists
       Digital artists
       Women digital artists
       Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni
       IBM employees
       Brazilian women scientists
       Brazilian scientists
       People from Cambridge, Massachusetts
       Google employees
       Technology company founders
       American company founders
       American women company founders
       Brazilian women company founders
       Brazilian designers
       MIT Media Lab people
       21st-century Brazilian women artists
       21st-century Brazilian artists
       21st-century American women
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with hCards
       Articles with Google Scholar identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Asturianu
       Deutsch
       Español
       Français
       مصرى
       Português
       Tiếng Việt
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 24 January 2022, at 06:48&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
