
 
  
   
  Neuroimaging - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Neuroimaging 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       This article is about imaging. For imagery and creating maps, see Brain mapping and Outline of brain mapping.
       
      
      
       
        
         Neuroimaging
        
        
         
          
           Para-sagittal MRI of the head in a patient with benign familial macrocephaly.
          
        
        
         Purpose
         indirectly(directly) image structure, function/pharmacology of the nervous system
        
       
       
      Neuroimaging is the use of quantitative (computational) techniques to study the structure and function of the central nervous system, developed as an objective way of scientifically studying the healthy human brain in a non-invasive manner (e.g. SPM FSL AFNI). Increasingly it is also being used for quantitative studies of brain disease and psychiatric illness. Neuroimaging is a highly multidisciplinary research field and is not a medical specialty. 
      Neuroimaging differs from neuroradiology which is a medical specialty and uses brain imaging in a clinical setting. Neuroradiology is practiced by radiologists who are medical practitioners. Neuroradiology primarily focuses on identifying brain lesions, such as vascular disease, strokes, tumors and inflammatory disease. In contrast to neuroimaging, neuroradiology is qualitative (based on subjective impressions and extensive clinical training) but sometimes uses basic quantitative methods. Functional brain imaging techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), are common in neuroimaging but rarely used in neuroradiology. Neuroimaging falls into two broad categories:  
      
       Structural imaging, which is used to quantify brain structure using e,g, voxel based morphometry. 
       Functional imaging, which is used to study brain function, often using fMRI and other techniques such as PET and MEG (see below).
       
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Indications 
        3 Brain-imaging techniques 
          
          3.1 Computed axial tomography 
          3.2 Diffuse optical imaging 
          3.3 Event-related optical signal 
          3.4 Magnetic resonance imaging 
          3.5 Functional magnetic resonance imaging 
          3.6 Magnetoencephalography 
          3.7 Positron emission tomography 
          3.8 Single-photon emission computed tomography 
          3.9 Cranial ultrasound 
          3.10 Functional ultrasound imaging 
          3.11 Quantum optically-pumped magnetometer 
           
        4 Advantages and concerns of neuroimaging techniques 
          
          4.1 Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) 
          4.2 Computed Tomography (CT) scan 
          4.3 Positron Emission Tomography (PET) 
          4.4 Magnetoencephalography (MEG) and Electroencephalography (EEG) 
           
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of neuroimaging
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of a head, from top to base of the skull
        
       
       
      The first chapter of the history of neuroimaging traces back to the Italian neuroscientist Angelo Mosso who invented the 'human circulation balance', which could non-invasively measure the redistribution of blood during emotional and intellectual activity. 
      In 1918, the American neurosurgeon Walter Dandy introduced the technique of ventriculography. X-ray images of the ventricular system within the brain were obtained by injection of filtered air directly into one or both lateral ventricles of the brain. Dandy also observed that air introduced into the subarachnoid space via lumbar spinal puncture could enter the cerebral ventricles and also demonstrate the cerebrospinal fluid compartments around the base of the brain and over its surface. This technique was called pneumoencephalography. 
      In 1927, Egas Moniz introduced cerebral angiography, whereby both normal and abnormal blood vessels in and around the brain could be visualized with great precision. 
      In the early 1970s, Allan McLeod Cormack and Godfrey Newbold Hounsfield introduced computerized axial tomography (CAT or CT scanning), and ever more detailed anatomic images of the brain became available for diagnostic and research purposes. Cormack and Hounsfield won the 1979 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for their work. Soon after the introduction of CAT in the early 1980s, the development of radioligands allowed single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) of the brain. 
      More or less concurrently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI or MR scanning) was developed by researchers including Peter Mansfield and Paul Lauterbur, who were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 2003. In the early 1980s MRI was introduced clinically, and during the 1980s a veritable explosion of technical refinements and diagnostic MR applications took place. Scientists soon learned that the large blood flow changes measured by PET could also be imaged by the correct type of MRI. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was born, and since the 1990s, fMRI has come to dominate the brain mapping field due to its low invasiveness, lack of radiation exposure, and relatively wide availability. 
      In the early 2000s, the field of neuroimaging reached the stage where limited practical applications of functional brain imaging have become feasible. The main application area is crude forms of brain–computer interface.  
      Indications 
      Neuroradiology follows a neurological examination in which a physician has found cause to more deeply investigate a patient who has or may have a neurological disorder. 
      One of the more common neurological problems which a person may experience is simple syncope. In cases of simple syncope in which the patient's history does not suggest other neurological symptoms, the diagnosis includes a neurological examination but routine neurological imaging is not indicated because the likelihood of finding a cause in the central nervous system is extremely low and the patient is unlikely to benefit from the procedure. 
      Neuroradiology is not indicated for patients with stable headaches which are diagnosed as migraine. Studies indicate that presence of migraine does not increase a patient's risk for intracranial disease. A diagnosis of migraine which notes the absence of other problems, such as papilledema, would not indicate a need for radiological investigations. In the course of conducting a careful diagnosis, the physician should consider whether the headache has a cause other than the migraine and might require radiological investigations. 
      Another indication for meuroradiology is CT-, MRI- and PET-guided stereotactic surgery or radiosurgery for treatment of intracranial tumors, arteriovenous malformations and other surgically treatable conditions.  
      Brain-imaging techniques 
      Computed axial tomography 
      
      
       Main article: CT head
       
      Computed tomography (CT) or Computed Axial Tomography (CAT) scanning uses a series of x-rays of the head taken from many different directions. Typically used for quickly viewing brain injuries, CT scanning uses a computer program that performs a numerical integral calculation (the inverse Radon transform) on the measured x-ray series to estimate how much of an x-ray beam is absorbed in a small volume of the brain. Typically the information is presented as cross-sections of the brain.  
      Diffuse optical imaging 
      Diffuse optical imaging (DOI) or diffuse optical tomography (DOT) is a medical imaging modality which uses near infrared light to generate images of the body. The technique measures the optical absorption of haemoglobin, and relies on the absorption spectrum of haemoglobin varying with its oxygenation status. High-density diffuse optical tomography (HD-DOT) has been compared directly to fMRI using response to visual stimulation in subjects studied with both techniques, with reassuringly similar results. HD-DOT has also been compared to fMRI in terms of language tasks and resting state functional connectivity.  
      Event-related optical signal 
      Event-related optical signal (EROS) is a brain-scanning technique which uses infrared light through optical fibers to measure changes in optical properties of active areas of the cerebral cortex. Whereas techniques such as diffuse optical imaging (DOT) and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measure optical absorption of haemoglobin, and thus are based on blood flow, EROS takes advantage of the scattering properties of the neurons themselves and thus provides a much more direct measure of cellular activity. EROS can pinpoint activity in the brain within millimeters (spatially) and within milliseconds (temporally). Its biggest downside is the inability to detect activity more than a few centimeters deep. EROS is a new, relatively inexpensive technique that is non-invasive to the test subject. It was developed at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where it is now used in the Cognitive Neuroimaging Laboratory of Dr. Gabriele Gratton and Dr. Monica Fabiani.  
      Magnetic resonance imaging 
      
      
       Main article: Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Sagittal MRI slice at the midline
        
       
       
      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) uses magnetic fields and radio waves to produce high quality two- or three-dimensional images of brain structures without the use of ionizing radiation (X-rays) or radioactive tracers. 
      the record for the highest spatial resolution of a whole intact brain (postmortem) is 100 microns, from Massachusetts General Hospital. The data was published in NATURE on 30 October 2019.  
      Functional magnetic resonance imaging 
      
       
         
        
         Axial MRI slice at the level of the basal ganglia, showing fMRI BOLD signal changes overlaid in red (increase) and blue (decrease) tones.
        
       
       
      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and arterial spin labeling (ASL) relies on the paramagnetic properties of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin to see images of changing blood flow in the brain associated with neural activity. This allows images to be generated that reflect which brain structures are activated (and how) during the performance of different tasks or at resting state. According to the oxygenation hypothesis, changes in oxygen usage in regional cerebral blood flow during cognitive or behavioral activity can be associated with the regional neurons as being directly related to the cognitive or behavioral tasks being attended. 
      Most fMRI scanners allow subjects to be presented with different visual images, sounds and touch stimuli, and to make different actions such as pressing a button or moving a joystick. Consequently, fMRI can be used to reveal brain structures and processes associated with perception, thought and action. The resolution of fMRI is about 2-3 millimeters at present, limited by the spatial spread of the hemodynamic response to neural activity. It has largely superseded PET for the study of brain activation patterns. PET, however, retains the significant advantage of being able to identify specific brain receptors (or transporters) associated with particular neurotransmitters through its ability to image radiolabeled receptor "ligands" (receptor ligands are any chemicals that stick to receptors). 
      As well as research on healthy subjects, fMRI is increasingly used for the medical diagnosis of disease. Because fMRI is exquisitely sensitive to oxygen usage in blood flow, it is extremely sensitive to early changes in the brain resulting from ischemia (abnormally low blood flow), such as the changes which follow stroke. Early diagnosis of certain types of stroke is increasingly important in neurology, since substances which dissolve blood clots may be used in the first few hours after certain types of stroke occur, but are dangerous to use afterward. Brain changes seen on fMRI may help to make the decision to treat with these agents. With between 72% and 90% accuracy where chance would achieve 0.8%, fMRI techniques can decide which of a set of known images the subject is viewing.  
      Magnetoencephalography 
      Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is an imaging technique used to measure the magnetic fields produced by electrical activity in the brain via extremely sensitive devices such as superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs) or spin exchange relaxation-free (SERF) magnetometers. MEG offers a very direct measurement of neural electrical activity (compared to fMRI for example) with very high temporal resolution but relatively low spatial resolution. The advantage of measuring the magnetic fields produced by neural activity is that they are likely to be less distorted by surrounding tissue (particularly the skull and scalp) compared to the electric fields measured by electroencephalography (EEG). Specifically, it can be shown that magnetic fields produced by electrical activity are not affected by the surrounding head tissue, when the head is modeled as a set of concentric spherical shells, each being an isotropic homogeneous conductor. Real heads are non-spherical and have largely anisotropic conductivities (particularly white matter and skull). While skull anisotropy has a negligible effect on MEG (unlike EEG), white matter anisotropy strongly affects MEG measurements for radial and deep sources. Note, however, that the skull was assumed to be uniformly anisotropic in this study, which is not true for a real head: the absolute and relative thicknesses of diploë and tables layers vary among and within the skull bones. This makes it likely that MEG is also affected by the skull anisotropy, although probably not to the same degree as EEG. 
      There are many uses for MEG, including assisting surgeons in localizing a pathology, assisting researchers in determining the function of various parts of the brain, neurofeedback, and others.  
      Positron emission tomography 
      Positron emission tomography (PET) and brain positron emission tomography, measure emissions from radioactively labeled metabolically active chemicals that have been injected into the bloodstream. The emission data are computer-processed to produce 2- or 3-dimensional images of the distribution of the chemicals throughout the brain.: 57  The positron emitting radioisotopes used are produced by a cyclotron, and chemicals are labeled with these radioactive atoms. The labeled compound, called a radiotracer, is injected into the bloodstream and eventually makes its way to the brain. Sensors in the PET scanner detect the radioactivity as the compound accumulates in various regions of the brain. A computer uses the data gathered by the sensors to create multicolored 2- or 3-dimensional images that show where the compound acts in the brain. Especially useful are a wide array of ligands used to map different aspects of neurotransmitter activity, with by far the most commonly used PET tracer being a labeled form of glucose (see Fludeoxyglucose (18F) (FDG)). 
      The greatest benefit of PET scanning is that different compounds can show blood flow and oxygen and glucose metabolism in the tissues of the working brain. These measurements reflect the amount of brain activity in the various regions of the brain and allow to learn more about how the brain works. PET scans were superior to all other metabolic imaging methods in terms of resolution and speed of completion (as little as 30 seconds) when they first became available. The improved resolution permitted better study to be made as to the area of the brain activated by a particular task. The biggest drawback of PET scanning is that because the radioactivity decays rapidly, it is limited to monitoring short tasks.: 60  Before fMRI technology came online, PET scanning was the preferred method of functional (as opposed to structural) brain imaging, and it continues to make large contributions to neuroscience. 
      PET scanning is also used for diagnosis of brain disease, most notably because brain tumors, strokes, and neuron-damaging diseases which cause dementia (such as Alzheimer's disease) all cause great changes in brain metabolism, which in turn causes easily detectable changes in PET scans. PET is probably most useful in early cases of certain dementias (with classic examples being Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease) where the early damage is too diffuse and makes too little difference in brain volume and gross structure to change CT and standard MRI images enough to be able to reliably differentiate it from the "normal" range of cortical atrophy which occurs with aging (in many but not all) persons, and which does not cause clinical dementia.  
      Single-photon emission computed tomography 
      Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is similar to PET and uses gamma ray-emitting radioisotopes and a gamma camera to record data that a computer uses to construct two- or three-dimensional images of active brain regions. SPECT relies on an injection of radioactive tracer, or "SPECT agent," which is rapidly taken up by the brain but does not redistribute. Uptake of SPECT agent is nearly 100% complete within 30 to 60 seconds, reflecting cerebral blood flow (CBF) at the time of injection. These properties of SPECT make it particularly well-suited for epilepsy imaging, which is usually made difficult by problems with patient movement and variable seizure types. SPECT provides a "snapshot" of cerebral blood flow since scans can be acquired after seizure termination (so long as the radioactive tracer was injected at the time of the seizure). A significant limitation of SPECT is its poor resolution (about 1&nbsp;cm) compared to that of MRI. Today, SPECT machines with Dual Detector Heads are commonly used, although Triple Detector Head machines are available in the marketplace. Tomographic reconstruction, (mainly used for functional "snapshots" of the brain) requires multiple projections from Detector Heads which rotate around the human skull, so some researchers have developed 6 and 11 Detector Head SPECT machines to cut imaging time and give higher resolution. 
      Like PET, SPECT also can be used to differentiate different kinds of disease processes which produce dementia, and it is increasingly used for this purpose. Neuro-PET has a disadvantage of requiring the use of tracers with half-lives of at most 110 minutes, such as FDG. These must be made in a cyclotron, and are expensive or even unavailable if necessary transport times are prolonged more than a few half-lives. SPECT, however, is able to make use of tracers with much longer half-lives, such as technetium-99m, and as a result, is far more widely available.  
      Cranial ultrasound 
      Cranial ultrasound is usually only used in babies, whose open fontanelles provide acoustic windows allowing ultrasound imaging of the brain. Advantages include the absence of ionising radiation and the possibility of bedside scanning, but the lack of soft-tissue detail means MRI is preferred for some conditions.  
      Functional ultrasound imaging 
      Functional ultrasound imaging (fUS) is a medical ultrasound imaging technique of detecting or measuring changes in neural activities or metabolism, for example, the loci of brain activity, typically through measuring blood flow or hemodynamic changes. Functional ultrasound relies on Ultrasensitive Doppler and ultrafast ultrasound imaging which allows high sensitivity blood flow imaging.  
      Quantum optically-pumped magnetometer 
      
      
       See also: Magnetometer
       
      In June 2021, researchers reported the development of the first modular quantum brain scanner which uses magnetic imaging and could become a novel whole-brain scanning approach.  
      Advantages and concerns of neuroimaging techniques 
      Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)
       fMRI is commonly classified as a minimally-to-moderate risk due to its non-invasiveness compared to other imaging methods. fMRI uses blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD)-contrast in order to produce its form of imaging. BOLD-contrast is a naturally occurring process in the body so fMRI is often preferred over imaging methods that require radioactive markers to produce similar imaging. A concern in the use of fMRI is its use in individuals with medical implants or devices and metallic items in the body. The magnetic resonance (MR) emitted from the equipment can cause failure of medical devices and attract metallic objects in the body if not properly screened for. Currently, the FDA classifies medical implants and devices into three categories, depending on MR-compatibility: MR-safe (safe in all MR environments), MR-unsafe (unsafe in any MR environment), and MR-conditional (MR-compatible in certain environments, requiring further information).
       
       FDA MR safety labels for implants and devices 
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          MR Safe  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          MR Conditional  
          
         
       
         
         
          
           
          
          
          
          MR Unsafe  
          
         
       
      Computed Tomography (CT) scan 
      The CT scan was introduced in the 1970s and quickly became one of the most widely used methods of imaging. A CT scan can be performed in under a second and produce rapid results for clinicians, with its ease of use leading to an increase in CT scans performed in the United States from 3 million in 1980 to 62 million in 2007. Clinicians oftentimes take multiple scans, with 30% of individuals undergoing at least 3 scans in one study of CT scan usage. CT scans can expose patients to levels of radiation 100-500 times higher than traditional x-rays, with higher radiation doses producing better resolution imaging. While easy to use, increases in CT scan use, especially in asymptomatic patients, is a topic of concern since patients are exposed to significantly high levels of radiation.  
      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) 
      In PET scans, imaging does not rely on intrinsic biological processes, but relies on a foreign substance injected into the bloodstream traveling to the brain. Patients are injected with radioisotopes that are metabolized in the brain and emit positrons to produce a visualization of brain activity. The amount of radiation a patient is exposed to in a PET scan is relatively small, comparable to the amount of environmental radiation an individual is exposed to across a year. PET radioisotopes have limited exposure time in the body as they commonly have very short half-lives (~2 hours) and decay rapidly. Currently, fMRI is a preferred method of imaging brain activity compared to PET, since it does not involve radiation, has a higher temporal resolution than PET, and is more readily available in most medical settings.  
      Magnetoencephalography (MEG) and Electroencephalography (EEG) 
      The high temporal resolution of MEG and EEG allow these methods to measure brain activity down to the millisecond. Both MEG and EEG do not require exposure of the patient to radiation to function. EEG electrodes detect electrical signals produced by neurons to measure brain activity and MEG uses oscillations in the magnetic field produced by these electrical currents to measure activity. A barrier in the widespread usage of MEG is due to pricing, as MEG systems can cost millions of dollars. EEG is a much more widely used method to achieve such temporal resolution as EEG systems cost much less than MEG systems. A disadvantage of EEG and MEG is that both methods have poor spatial resolution when compared to fMRI.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Medicine portal
       
       
      
       
       
        Brain mapping 
         
          Outline of brain mapping
          
        Connectogram 
        Functional integration (neurobiology) 
        Functional near-infrared spectroscopy 
        Functional neuroimaging 
        History of neuroimaging 
        Human brain 
         
          Cognitive neuroscience 
          Outline of the human brain
          
        List of neuroimaging software 
        List of neuroscience databases 
        Magnetic resonance imaging 
        Magnetoencephalography 
        Medical image computing 
        Medical imaging 
        Neuroimaging journals 
        Statistical parametric mapping 
        Transcranial magnetic stimulation 
        Voxel-based morphometry
        
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Sandrone S, Bacigaluppi M, Galloni MR, Martino G (November 2012). "Angelo Mosso (1846-1910)". Journal of Neurology. 259 (11): 2513–4. doi:10.1007/s00415-012-6632-1. hdl:2318/140004. PMID&nbsp;23010944. S2CID&nbsp;13365830.  
        ^ 
          Miller TH, Kruse JE (October 2005). "Evaluation of syncope". American Family Physician. 72 (8): 1492–500. PMID&nbsp;16273816.  
        ^ a b 
          American College of Physicians (September 2013), "Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question", Choosing Wisely: an initiative of the ABIM Foundation, American College of Physicians, retrieved 10 December 2013, which cites 
          
           
            American College of Radiology; American Society of Neuroradiology (2010), "ACR-ASNR practice guideline for the performance of computed tomography (CT) of the brain", Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Reston, VA, USA: American College of Radiology, archived from the original on 15 September 2012, retrieved 9 September 2012 
           
            Transient loss of consciousness in adults and young people: NICE guideline, National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, 25 August 2010, retrieved 9 September 2012 
           
            Moya A, Sutton R, Ammirati F, Blanc JJ, Brignole M, Dahm JB, Deharo JC, Gajek J, Gjesdal K, Krahn A, Massin M, Pepi M, Pezawas T, Ruiz Granell R, Sarasin F, Ungar A, van Dijk JG, Walma EP, Wieling W (November 2009). "Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of syncope (version 2009)". European Heart Journal. 30 (21): 2631–71. doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehp298. PMC&nbsp;3295536. PMID&nbsp;19713422.
            
        ^ a b c d 
          American Headache Society (September 2013), "Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question", Choosing Wisely: an initiative of the ABIM Foundation, American Headache Society, archived from the original on 3 December 2013, retrieved 10 December 2013, which cites 
          
           
            Lewis DW, Dorbad D (September 2000). "The utility of neuroimaging in the evaluation of children with migraine or chronic daily headache who have normal neurological examinations". Headache. 40 (8): 629–32. doi:10.1046/j.1526-4610.2000.040008629.x. PMID&nbsp;10971658. S2CID&nbsp;14443890. 
           
            Silberstein SD (September 2000). "Practice parameter: evidence-based guidelines for migraine headache (an evidence-based review): report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology". Neurology. 55 (6): 754–62. doi:10.1212/WNL.55.6.754. PMID&nbsp;10993991. 
           
            "Neuroimaging for the evaluation of chronic headaches: an evidence-based analysis". Ontario Health Technology Assessment Series. 10 (26): 1–57. 2010. PMC&nbsp;3377587. PMID&nbsp;23074404.
            
        ^ 
          Thomas DG, Anderson RE, du Boulay GH (January 1984). "CT-guided stereotactic neurosurgery: experience in 24 cases with a new stereotactic system". Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry. 47 (1): 9–16. doi:10.1136/jnnp.47.1.9. PMC&nbsp;1027634. PMID&nbsp;6363629.  
        ^ 
          Heilbrun MP, Sunderland PM, McDonald PR, Wells TH, Cosman E, Ganz E (1987). "Brown-Roberts-Wells stereotactic frame modifications to accomplish magnetic resonance imaging guidance in three planes". Applied Neurophysiology. 50 (1–6): 143–52. doi:10.1159/000100700. PMID&nbsp;3329837.  
        ^ 
          Leksell L, Leksell D, Schwebel J (January 1985). "Stereotaxis and nuclear magnetic resonance". Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry. 48 (1): 14–8. doi:10.1136/jnnp.48.1.14. PMC&nbsp;1028176. PMID&nbsp;3882889.  
        ^ 
          Levivier M, Massager N, Wikler D, Lorenzoni J, Ruiz S, Devriendt D, David P, Desmedt F, Simon S, Van Houtte P, Brotchi J, Goldman S (July 2004). "Use of stereotactic PET images in dosimetry planning of radiosurgery for brain tumors: clinical experience and proposed classification". Journal of Nuclear Medicine. 45 (7): 1146–54. PMID&nbsp;15235060.  
        ^ 
          Jeeves MA (1994). Mind Fields: Reflections on the Science of Mind and Brain. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books. p.&nbsp;21.  
        ^ 
          Eggebrecht AT, White BR, Ferradal SL, Chen C, Zhan Y, Snyder AZ, Dehghani H, Culver JP (July 2012). "A quantitative spatial comparison of high-density diffuse tomography and fMRI cortical mapping". NeuroImage. 61 (4): 1120–8. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.01.124. PMC&nbsp;3581336. PMID&nbsp;22330315.  
        ^ 
          Eggebrecht AT, Ferradal SL, Robichaux-Viehoever A, Hassanpour MS, Dehghani H, Snyder AZ, Hershey T, Culver JP (June 2014). "Mapping distributed brain function and networks with diffuse optical tomography". Nature Photonics. 8 (6): 448–454. Bibcode:2014NaPho...8..448E. doi:10.1038/nphoton.2014.107. PMC&nbsp;4114252. PMID&nbsp;25083161.  
        ^ 
          Dockrill, Peter. "100-Hour-Long MRI of Human Brain Produces Most Detailed 3D Images Yet". www.sciencealert.com.  
        ^ 
          Hospital, Massachusetts General. "Team publishes on highest resolution brain MRI scan". medicalxpress.com.  
        ^ 
          Smith K (March 5, 2008). "Mind-reading with a brain scan". Nature News. Nature Publishing Group. Retrieved 2008-03-05.  
        ^ 
          Keim B (March 5, 2008). "Brain Scanner Can Tell What You're Looking At". Wired News. CondéNet. Retrieved 2015-09-16.  
        ^ 
          Boto, Elena; Holmes, Niall; Leggett, James; Roberts, Gillian; Shah, Vishal; Meyer, Sofie S.; Muñoz, Leonardo Duque; Mullinger, Karen J.; Tierney, Tim M. (March 2018). "Moving magnetoencephalography towards real-world applications with a wearable system". Nature. 555 (7698): 657–661. Bibcode:2018Natur.555..657B. doi:10.1038/nature26147. ISSN&nbsp;1476-4687. PMC&nbsp;6063354. PMID&nbsp;29562238.  
        ^ 
          Wolters CH, Anwander A, Tricoche X, Weinstein D, Koch MA, MacLeod RS (April 2006). "Influence of tissue conductivity anisotropy on EEG/MEG field and return current computation in a realistic head model: a simulation and visualization study using high-resolution finite element modeling". NeuroImage. 30 (3): 813–26. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.10.014. hdl:11858/00-001M-0000-0019-1079-8. PMID&nbsp;16364662. S2CID&nbsp;5578998.  
        ^ 
          Ramon C, Haueisen J, Schimpf PH (October 2006). "Influence of head models on neuromagnetic fields and inverse source localizations". BioMedical Engineering OnLine. 5 (1): 55. doi:10.1186/1475-925X-5-55. PMC&nbsp;1629018. PMID&nbsp;17059601.  
        ^ a b 
          Nilsson L, Markowitsch HJ (1999). Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory. Seattle: Hogrefe &amp; Huber Publishers.  
        ^ Philip Ball Brain Imaging Explained  
        ^ 
          "SPECT Systems for Brain Imaging". Retrieved July 24, 2014.  
        ^ 
          "SPECT Brain Imaging". Retrieved January 12, 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Researchers build first modular quantum brain sensor, record signal". phys.org. Retrieved 11 July 2021.  
        ^ 
          Coussens, Thomas; Abel, Christopher; Gialopsou, Aikaterini; Bason, Mark G.; James, Tim M.; Orucevic, Fedja; Kruger, Peter (10 June 2021). "Modular optically-pumped magnetometer system". arXiv:2106.05877 . arXiv:2106.05877. Retrieved 11 July 2021.  
        ^ a b c d 
          Crosson B, Ford A, McGregor KM, Meinzer M, Cheshkov S, Li X, Walker-Batson D, Briggs RW (2010). "Functional imaging and related techniques: an introduction for rehabilitation researchers". Journal of Rehabilitation Research and Development. 47 (2): vii–xxxiv. doi:10.1682/jrrd.2010.02.0017. PMC&nbsp;3225087. PMID&nbsp;20593321.  
        ^ 
          Tsai LL, Grant AK, Mortele KJ, Kung JW, Smith MP (October 2015). "A Practical Guide to MR Imaging Safety: What Radiologists Need to Know". Radiographics. 35 (6): 1722–37. doi:10.1148/rg.2015150108. PMID&nbsp;26466181.  
        ^ 
          Center for Devices and Radiological Health. "MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) - MRI Safety Posters". www.fda.gov. Retrieved 2018-04-10.  
        ^ a b 
          Brenner DJ, Hall EJ (November 2007). "Computed tomography--an increasing source of radiation exposure". The New England Journal of Medicine. 357 (22): 2277–84. doi:10.1056/NEJMra072149. PMID&nbsp;18046031.  
        ^ 
          Smith-Bindman R (July 2010). "Is computed tomography safe?". The New England Journal of Medicine. 363 (1): 1–4. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1002530. PMID&nbsp;20573919.  
        ^ 
          "What happens during a PET scan?". PubMed Health. 2016-12-30.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Neuroimaging.
         
       
       
      
       The Whole Brain Atlas @ Harvard 
       Lecture notes on mathematical aspects of neuroimaging by Will Penny, University College London 
       "Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation". by Michael Leventon in association with MIT AI Lab. 
       NeuroDebian – a complete operating system targeting neuroimaging
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Psychiatry
           
         
         
          Subspecialties
          
            
            
             Addiction psychiatry 
             Biological psychiatry 
             Child and adolescent psychiatry 
             Cognitive neuropsychiatry 
             Cross-cultural psychiatry 
             Developmental disability 
             Descriptive psychiatry 
             Eating disorder 
             Emergency psychiatry 
             Forensic psychiatry 
             Geriatric psychiatry 
             Immuno-psychiatry 
             Liaison psychiatry 
             Military psychiatry 
             Narcology 
             Neuropsychiatry 
             Palliative medicine 
             Pain medicine 
             Psychotherapy 
             Sleep medicine
             
           
         
         
          Organizations
          
            
            
             American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry 
             American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology 
             American Neuropsychiatric Association 
             American Psychiatric Association 
             Campaign Against Psychiatric Abuse 
             Chinese Society of Psychiatry 
             Democratic Psychiatry 
             European Psychiatric Association 
             Global Initiative on Psychiatry 
             Hong Kong College of Psychiatrists 
             Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia 
             Indian Psychiatric Society 
             National Institute of Mental Health 
             Philadelphia Association 
             Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 
             Royal College of Psychiatrists 
             Working Commission to Investigate the Use of Psychiatry for Political Purposes 
             World Psychiatric Association 
             Taiwanese Society of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Anti-psychiatry 
             Behavioral medicine 
             Clinical neuroscience 
             Imaging genetics 
             Neuroimaging 
             Neurophysiology 
             Philosophy of psychiatry 
             Political abuse of psychiatry 
             Insulin shock therapy 
             Electroconvulsive therapy 
             Pentylenetetrazol 
             Biopsychiatry controversy 
             Controversies about psychiatry 
             Psychiatrist 
             Psychiatric epidemiology 
             Psychiatric genetics 
             Psychiatric hospital 
             Psychiatric survivors movement 
             Psychosomatic medicine 
             Psycho-oncology 
             Psychopharmacology 
             Psychosurgery 
             Psychoanalysis
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Outline of the psychiatric survivors movement 
             Psychiatrists 
             Neurological conditions and disorders 
             Counseling topics 
             Psychotherapies 
             Psychiatric medications 
              
               by condition treated
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Portal 
              Outline
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Neuroscience
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline of neuroscience 
             History of neuroscience
             
           
         
         
          Basicscience
          
            
            
             Behavioral epigenetics 
             Behavioral genetics 
             Brain mapping 
             Brain-reading 
             Cellular neuroscience 
             Computational neuroscience 
             Connectomics 
             Imaging genetics 
             Integrative neuroscience 
             Molecular neuroscience 
             Neural decoding 
             Neural engineering 
             Neuroanatomy 
             Neurochemistry 
             Neuroendocrinology 
             Neurogenetics 
             Neuroinformatics 
             Neurometrics 
             Neuromorphology 
             Neurophysics 
             Neurophysiology 
             Systems neuroscience
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          Clinicalneuroscience
          
            
            
             Behavioral neurology 
             Clinical neurophysiology 
             Neurocardiology 
             Neuroepidemiology 
             Neurogastroenterology 
             Neuroimmunology 
             Neurointensive care 
             Neurology 
             Neurooncology 
             Neuro-ophthalmology 
             Neuropathology 
             Neuropharmacology 
             Neuroprosthetics 
             Neuropsychiatry 
             Neuroradiology 
             Neurorehabilitation 
             Neurosurgery 
             Neurotology 
             Neurovirology 
             Nutritional neuroscience 
             Psychiatry
             
           
         
         
          Cognitiveneuroscience
          
            
            
             Affective neuroscience 
             Behavioral neuroscience 
             Chronobiology 
             Molecular cellular cognition 
             Motor control 
             Neurolinguistics 
             Neuropsychology 
             Sensory neuroscience 
             Social cognitive neuroscience
             
           
         
         
          Interdisciplinaryfields
          
            
            
             Consumer neuroscience 
             Cultural neuroscience 
             Educational neuroscience 
             Evolutionary neuroscience 
             Neuroanthropology 
             Neurobioengineering 
             Neurobiotics 
             Neurocriminology 
             Neuroeconomics 
             Neuroepistemology 
             Neuroesthetics 
             Neuroethics 
             Neuroethology 
             Neurohistory 
             Neurolaw 
             Neuromarketing 
             Neuromorphics 
             Neurophenomenology 
             Neurophilosophy 
             Neuropolitics 
             Neurorobotics 
             Neurotheology 
             Paleoneurobiology 
             Social neuroscience
             
           
         
         
          Concepts
          
            
            
             Brain–computer interface 
             Neural development 
             Neural network (artificial) 
             Neural network (biological) 
             Detection theory 
             Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring 
             Neurochip 
             Neurodegenerative disease 
             Neurodevelopmental disorder 
             Neurodiversity 
             Neurogenesis 
             Neuroimaging 
             Neuroimmune system 
             Neuromanagement 
             Neuromodulation 
             Neuroplasticity 
             Neurotechnology 
             Neurotoxin
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Tests and procedures involving the central nervous system
           
         
         
          
           
            Neurosurgery
           
         
         
          Skull
          
            
            
             Craniotomy 
             Decompressive craniectomy 
             Cranioplasty
             
           
         
         
          Brain
          
           
           
            
             
              thalamus and globus pallidus
              
                
                
                 Thalamotomy 
                 Thalamic stimulator 
                 Pallidotomy
                 
               
             
             
              
               ventricular system
              
                
                
                 Cerebral shunt 
                 Ventriculostomy 
                 Suboccipital puncture 
                 Intracranial pressure monitoring
                 
               
             
             
              
               cerebrum
              
                
                
                 Psychosurgery 
                  
                   Lobotomy 
                   Bilateral cingulotomy
                   
                 Multiple subpial transection 
                 Hemispherectomy 
                 Corpus callosotomy 
                 Anterior temporal lobectomy
                 
               
             
             
              Other
              
                
                
                 pituitary gland 
                  
                   Hypophysectomy
                   
                 hippocampus 
                  
                   Amygdalohippocampectomy
                   
                 Brain biopsy
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Meninges
          
            
            
             Meningeal biopsy
             
           
         
         
          Spinal cord and spinal canal
          
            
            
             Spinal decompression 
             Discectomy 
             Intervertebral disc annuloplasty 
             Cordotomy 
             Rhizotomy
             
           
         
         
          Imaging
          
            
            
             Neuroimaging 
             Head CT 
             Cerebral angiography 
             Pneumoencephalography 
             Echoencephalography/Transcranial Doppler 
             Brain MRI 
             Brain PET 
             Magnetoencephalography 
             Myelography 
             Wada test 
             Microneurography
             
           
         
         
          Diagnostic
          
            
            
             Electroencephalography 
             Lumbar puncture 
              
               CSF tap test
               
             Polysomnography
             
           
         
         
          Clinical prediction rules
          
            
            
             Glasgow Coma Scale 
             Mini–Mental State Examination 
             National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale 
             CHADS2 score
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Neuroimaging&amp;oldid=1069348633"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Neuroimaging
       Radiology
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Pages using div col with small parameter
       Commons category link from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Magyar
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Shqip
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 February 2022, at 21:18&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
