
 
  
   
  Visual analytics - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Visual analytics 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        
         
        
        
         Information mapping
        
        
          Topics and fields
        
        
          
          
           Business decision mapping 
           Data visualization 
           Graphic communication 
           Infographics 
           Information design 
           Knowledge visualization 
           Mental model 
           Morphological analysis 
           Visual analytics 
           Visual language
           
        
        
          Node–link approaches
        
        
          
          
           Argument map 
           Cladistics 
           Cognitive map 
           Concept lattice 
           Concept map 
           Conceptual graph 
           Decision tree 
           Dendrogram 
           Graph drawing 
           Hyperbolic tree 
           Hypertext 
           Issue map 
           Issue tree 
           Layered graph drawing 
           Mind map 
           Object-role modeling 
           Organizational chart 
           Radial tree 
           Semantic network 
           Sociogram 
           Timeline 
           Topic map 
           Tree structure
           
        
        
          See also
        
        
          
          
           Design rationale 
           Diagrammatic reasoning 
           Entity–relationship model 
           Geovisualization 
           List of concept- and mind-mapping software 
           Olog 
           Problem structuring methods 
           Semantic Web 
           Treemapping 
           Wicked problem
           
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      Visual analytics is an outgrowth of the fields of information visualization and scientific visualization that focuses on analytical reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 Topics 
          
          2.1 Scope 
          2.2 Analytical reasoning techniques 
          2.3 Data representations 
          2.4 Theories of visualization 
          2.5 Visual representations 
           
        3 Process 
        4 See also 
          
          4.1 Related subjects 
          4.2 Related scientists 
          4.3 Related software 
           
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Overview 
      Visual analytics is "the science of analytical reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces." It can attack certain problems whose size, complexity, and need for closely coupled human and machine analysis may make them otherwise intractable. Visual analytics advances science and technology developments in analytical reasoning, interaction, data transformations and representations for computation and visualization, analytic reporting, and technology transition. As a research agenda, visual analytics brings together several scientific and technical communities from computer science, information visualization, cognitive and perceptual sciences, interactive design, graphic design, and social sciences. 
      Visual analytics integrates new computational and theory-based tools with innovative interactive techniques and visual representations to enable human-information discourse. The design of the tools and techniques is based on cognitive, design, and perceptual principles. This science of analytical reasoning provides the reasoning framework upon which one can build both strategic and tactical visual analytics technologies for threat analysis, prevention, and response. Analytical reasoning is central to the analyst’s task of applying human judgments to reach conclusions from a combination of evidence and assumptions. 
      Visual analytics has some overlapping goals and techniques with information visualization and scientific visualization. There is currently no clear consensus on the boundaries between these fields, but broadly speaking the three areas can be distinguished as follows:  
      
       Scientific visualization deals with data that has a natural geometric structure (e.g., MRI data, wind flows). 
       Information visualization handles abstract data structures such as trees or graphs. 
       Visual analytics is especially concerned with coupling interactive visual representations with underlying analytical processes (e.g., statistical procedures, data mining techniques) such that high-level, complex activities can be effectively performed (e.g., sense making, reasoning, decision making).
       
      Visual analytics seeks to marry techniques from information visualization with techniques from computational transformation and analysis of data. Information visualization forms part of the direct interface between user and machine, amplifying human cognitive capabilities in six basic ways:  
      
       by increasing cognitive resources, such as by using a visual resource to expand human working memory, 
       by reducing search, such as by representing a large amount of data in a small space, 
       by enhancing the recognition of patterns, such as when information is organized in space by its time relationships, 
       by supporting the easy perceptual inference of relationships that are otherwise more difficult to induce, 
       by perceptual monitoring of a large number of potential events, and 
       by providing a manipulable medium that, unlike static diagrams, enables the exploration of a space of parameter values
       
      These capabilities of information visualization, combined with computational data analysis, can be applied to analytic reasoning to support the sense-making process.  
      Topics 
      Scope 
      Visual analytics is a multidisciplinary field that includes the following focus areas:  
      
       Analytical reasoning techniques that enable users to obtain deep insights that directly support assessment, planning, and decision making 
       Data representations and transformations that convert all types of conflicting and dynamic data in ways that support visualization and analysis 
       Techniques to support production, presentation, and dissemination of the results of an analysis to communicate information in the appropriate context to a variety of audiences. 
       Visual representations and interaction techniques that take advantage of the human eye’s broad bandwidth pathway into the mind to allow users to see, explore, and understand large amounts of information at once.
       
      Analytical reasoning techniques 
      Analytical reasoning techniques are the method by which users obtain deep insights that directly support situation assessment, planning, and decision making. Visual analytics must facilitate high-quality human judgment with a limited investment of the analysts’ time. Visual analytics tools must enable diverse analytical tasks such as:  
      
       Understanding past and present situations quickly, as well as the trends and events that have produced current conditions 
       Identifying possible alternative futures and their warning signs 
       Monitoring current events for emergence of warning signs as well as unexpected events 
       Determining indicators of the intent of an action or an individual 
       Supporting the decision maker in times of crisis.
       
      These tasks will be conducted through a combination of individual and collaborative analysis, often under extreme time pressure. Visual analytics must enable hypothesis-based and scenario-based analytical techniques, providing support for the analyst to reason based on the available evidence.  
      Data representations 
      Data representations are structured forms suitable for computer-based transformations. These structures must exist in the original data or be derivable from the data themselves. They must retain the information and knowledge content and the related context within the original data to the greatest degree possible. The structures of underlying data representations are generally neither accessible nor intuitive to the user of the visual analytics tool. They are frequently more complex in nature than the original data and are not necessarily smaller in size than the original data. The structures of the data representations may contain hundreds or thousands of dimensions and be unintelligible to a person, but they must be transformable into lower-dimensional representations for visualization and analysis.  
      Theories of visualization 
      Theories of visualization include:  
      
       Jacques Bertin's Semiology of Graphics (1967) 
       Nelson Goodman's Languages of Art (1977) 
       Jock D. Mackinlay's Automated design of optimal visualization (APT) (1986) 
       Leland Wilkinson's Grammar of Graphics (1998)
       
      Visual representations 
      Visual representations translate data into a visible form that highlights important features, including commonalities and anomalies. These visual representations make it easy for users to perceive salient aspects of their data quickly. Augmenting the cognitive reasoning process with perceptual reasoning through visual representations permits the analytical reasoning process to become faster and more focused.  
      Process 
      The input for the data sets used in the visual analytics process are heterogeneous data sources (i.e., the internet, newspapers, books, scientific experiments, expert systems). From these rich sources, the data sets S = S1, ..., Sm are chosen, whereas each Si , i ∈ (1, ..., m) consists of attributes Ai1, ..., Aik. The goal or output of the process is insight I. Insight is either directly obtained from the set of created visualizations V or through confirmation of hypotheses H as the results of automated analysis methods. This formalization of the visual analytics process is illustrated in the following figure. Arrows represent the transitions from one set to another one. 
      More formally the visual analytics process is a transformation F: S → I, whereas F is a concatenation of functions f ∈  defined as follows: 
      DW describes the basic data pre-processing functionality with DW&nbsp;: S → S and W ∈  including data transformation functions DT, data cleaning functions DC, data selection functions DSL and data integration functions DI that are needed to make analysis functions applicable to the data set. 
      VW, W ∈  symbolizes the visualization functions, which are either functions visualizing data VS&nbsp;: S → V or functions visualizing hypotheses VH&nbsp;: H → V. 
      HY, Y ∈  represents the hypotheses generation process. We distinguish between functions that generate hypotheses from data HS&nbsp;: S → H and functions that generate hypotheses from visualizations HV&nbsp;: V → H. 
      Moreover, user interactions UZ, Z ∈  are an integral part of the visual analytics process. User interactions can either effect only visualizations UV&nbsp;: V → V (i.e., selecting or zooming), or can effect only hypotheses UH&nbsp;: H → H by generating a new hypotheses from given ones. Furthermore, insight can be concluded from visualizations UCV&nbsp;: V → I or from hypotheses UCH&nbsp;: H → I. 
      The typical data pre-processing applying data cleaning, data integration and data transformation functions is defined as DP = DT(DI(DC(S1, ..., Sn))). After the pre-processing step either automated analysis methods HS =  (i.e., statistics, data mining, etc.) or visualization methods VS&nbsp;: S → V, VS =  are applied to the data, in order to reveal patterns as shown in the figure above. 
      In general the following paradigm is used to process the data: 
      Analyse First – Show the Important – Zoom, Filter and Analyse Further – Details on Demand  
      See also 
      Related subjects 
      
       
       
        Cartography 
        Computational visualistics 
        Critical thinking 
        Decision-making 
        Google Analytics 
        Interaction design 
        Interactive visual analysis 
        Interactivity 
        Social network analysis software 
        Software visualization 
        Starlight Information Visualization System 
        Text analytics 
        Traffic analysis 
        Visual reasoning
        
       
      Related scientists 
      
       
       
        Cecilia R. Aragon 
        Robert E. Horn 
        Daniel A. Keim 
        Theresa-Marie Rhyne 
        Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
        Ben Shneiderman 
        John Stasko 
        Jim Thomas
        
       
      Related software 
      
       imc FAMOS (1987), graphical data analysis
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Pak Chung Wong and J. Thomas (2004). "Visual Analytics". in: IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, Volume 24, Issue 5, Sept.-Oct. 2004 Page(s): 20–21.  
         ^ a b c d e f g h James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook (Ed.) (2005). Illuminating the Path: The R&amp;D Agenda for Visual Analytics National Visualization and Analytics Center.  
         ^ a b Robert Kosara (2007). Visual Analytics. ITCS 4122/5122, Fall 2007. Retrieved 28 June 2008.  
         ^ Kielman, J. and Thomas, J. (Guest Eds.) (2009). "Special Issue: Foundations and Frontiers of Visual Analytics". in: Information Visualization, Volume 8, Number 4, Winter 2009 Page(s): 239-314.  
         ^ Stuart Card, J.D. Mackinlay, and Ben Shneiderman (1999). "Readings in Information Visualization: Using Vision to Think". Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco.  
         ^ A. Kerren and F. Schreiber. Toward the Role of Interaction in Visual Analytics. In Proceedings of the 2012 Winter Simulation Conference (WSC '12), pages 420:1-420:13, Berlin, Germany, 2012. IEEE Computer Society Press.  
         ^ Daniel A. Keim, Florian Mansmann, Jörn Schneidewind, Jim Thomas, and Hartmut Ziegler (2008). "Visual Analytics: Scope and Challenges"  
         ^ Keim D. A, Mansmann F, Schneidewind J, Thomas J, Ziegler H: Visual analytics: Scope and challenges. Visual Data Mining: 2008, S. 82.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Boris Kovalerchuk and James Schwing (2004). Visual and Spatial Analysis: Advances in Data Mining, Reasoning, and Problem Soving 
       Guoping Qiu (2007). Advances in Visual Information Systems: 9th International Conference (VISUAL).  
       IEEE, Inc. Staff (2007). Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), A Symposium of the IEEE 2007. 
       May Yuan, Kathleen and Stewart Hornsby (2007). Computation and Visualization for Understanding Dynamics in Geographic Domains.  
       Daniel Keim, Gennady Andrienko, Jean-Daniel Fekete, Carsten Görg, Jörn Kohlhammer, and Guy Melançon (2008). Visual Analytics: Definition, Process, and Challenges. In Andreas Kerren, John T. Stasko, Jean-Daniel Fekete, and Chris North (Eds.), Information Visualization - Human-Centered Issues and Perspectives, pages 154-175, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 4950, Springer Berlin Heidelberg. 
       Mastering the Visualization Age: Solving Problems with Visual Analytics (2010) (pdf) 
       Kawa Nazemi (2014). Adaptive Semantics Visualization. Eurographics Association . TU Darmstadt Dissertation. Eurographics.
       
      External links 
      
        Media related to Visual analytics at Wikimedia Commons
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Visual_analytics&amp;oldid=1067137673"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Computational science
       Computer graphics
       Infographics
       Visualization (graphic)
       Scientific visualization
       Cartography
       Types of analytics
       Big data
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 23:12&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
