
 
  
   
  Claudio Silva (computer scientist) - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Claudio Silva (computer scientist) 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Computer scientist and data scientist
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Claudio Silva
          
        
        
         Nationality
         Brazilian American
        
        
         Occupation
         
          
           
            Academic
            Computer scientist
            Data scientist
           
          
        
        
         Employer
         New York University
        
        
         Organization
         
          
           
            New York University Tandon School of Engineering
            Center for Urban Science and Progress
            Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences
           
          
        
        
         Known&nbsp;for
         Co-developer of VisTrails
        
        
         Spouse(s)
         Juliana Freire
        
       
       
      Claudio Silva is a Brazilian American computer scientist and data scientist. He is a professor of computer science and engineering at the New York University Tandon School of Engineering, the head of disciplines at the NYU Center for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP) and affiliate faculty member at NYU's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. He co-developed the open-source data-exploration system VisTrails with his wife Juliana Freire and many other collaborators. He is a former chair of the executive committee for the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Visualization and Graphics.  
      About 
      Silva received his BS in mathematics from the Federal University of Ceará. He has his MS and PhD in computer science from the State University of New York at Stony Brook. 
      Silva joined NYU in July 2011. Previously, he held positions at labs including AT&amp;T Labs, IBM Research, Sandia National Laboratory and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He was also a faculty member at the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute and Professor in the School of Computing at the University of Utah as well as a Visiting Professor at Linköping University in Sweden. 
      His research interests include visualization, visual analytics, reproducibility and provenance, geometric computing, data science/big data, sports analytics, urban computing and computer graphics. He participates in interdisciplinary projects across domains such as biotechnology, neuroscience, physics, ornithology, environmental science and urban science, collaborating with companies such as AT&amp;T. In conjunction with the Major League Baseball Advanced Media, he co-developed an in-ballpark infrastructure designed to provide complete and reliable measurements of every play on the field in order to answer analytics questions. 
      He has published more than 220 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers and holds 12 U.S. patents. He received grants from institutions including the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, the National Institutes of Health, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation.  
      Recognition 
      Silva's work has received a number of awards. The VisTrails Provenance Plugin for Autodesk Maya received a 2009 Utah Innovation Award. In 2013, he was elected an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers fellow and in 2014 he won the IEEE Visualization Technical Achievement Award "in recognition of seminal advances in geometric computing for visualization and for contributions to the development of the VisTrails data exploration system." UV-CDAT, a novel climate data analysis tool that he helped build, won the 2015 Federal Laboratory Consortium Interagency Partnership Award. MLB.com's Statcast player tracking system won the Alpha Award for Best Analytics Innovation/Technology at the 2015 MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c "NYU professor wins premier award in the data visualization field". ecnmag.com. Advantage Business Media. November 12, 2014. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Grabar, Henry (January 27, 2015). "Would You Share Private Data for the Good of City Planning?". nextcity.org. Next City. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Ruth, João-Pierre S. (August 28, 2013). "Microsoft Research Grabs More Room for Data Science in Silicon Alley". xconomy.com. Xconomy, Inc. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "Decoding the Deep: Juliana Freire and Caludio Silva Join NYU-Poly". engineering.nyu.edu. NYU School of Engineering. February 13, 2012. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "Claudio Silva". engineering.nyu.edu. New York University. Archived from the original on September 7, 2015. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Post, Frits; Nielson, Gregory; Bonneau, Georges-Pierre (December 6, 2012). Data Visualization: The State of the Art. Springer Science &amp; Business Media. p.&nbsp;157. ISBN&nbsp;9781461511779. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Newman, Mark (March 1, 2014). "MLBAM introduces new way to analyze every play". m.mlb.com. MLB.com. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Sondhi, Paul (April 30, 2014). "Cameras Are The Future (Of Front Office Decisions In Sports)". nyulocal.com. NYULocal. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Winners Announced in the 2009 Utah Innovation Awards". stoel.com. Stoel Rivers LLP. April 30, 2009. Archived from the original on January 5, 2016. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Ewing, VJ (March 4, 2015). "UV-CDAT team wins Federal Laboratory Consortium Interagency Partnership Award". climatechangescience.ornl.gov. US Department of Energy. Archived from the original on September 11, 2015. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Leach, Matthew (February 28, 2015). "Statcast wins prestigious Alpha Award for innovation". MLB.com. Retrieved September 4, 2015.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Claudio_Silva_(computer_scientist)&amp;oldid=1064198549"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       American computer scientists
       Brazilian computer scientists
       Information visualization experts
       Living people
       Fellow Members of the IEEE
       Polytechnic Institute of New York University faculty
       University of Utah faculty
       Stony Brook University alumni
       Scientists from New York (state)
       Computer graphics researchers
       Sloan Research Fellows
       Sandia National Laboratories people
       Federal University of Ceará alumni
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from April 2016
       Pages using infobox person with multiple organizations
       Articles with hCards
       AC with 0 elements
       Year of birth missing (living people)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 January 2022, at 03:40&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
