
 
  
   
  Graphic design - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Graphic design 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Process of visual communication
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Due to its interdisciplinary nature, graphic design can be performed in different areas of application: branding, technical and artistic drawing, signage, photography, image and video editing, 3D modeling, animation, programming, among other fields.
        
       
       
      Graphic design is the profession and academic discipline whose activity consists in projecting visual communications intended to transmit specific messages to social groups, with specific objectives. As opposed to art, whose aim is merely contemplation, design is based on the principle of "form follows a specific function". 
      Therefore, graphic design is an interdisciplinary branch of design whose foundations and objectives revolve around the definition of problems and the determination of objectives for decision-making, through creativity, innovation and lateral thinking along with manual or digital tools, transforming them for proper interpretation. This activity helps in the optimization of graphic communications (see also communication design). It is also known as visual communication design, visual design or editorial design. 
      The role of the graphic designer in the communication process is that of encoder or interpreter of the message. They work on the interpretation, ordering, and presentation of visual messages. The design work can be based on a customer’s demand, a demand that ends up being established linguistically, either orally or in writing, that is, that graphic design transforms a linguistic message into a graphic manifestation. 
      Graphic design has, as a field of application, different areas of knowledge focused on any visual communication system. For example, it can be applied in advertising strategies, or it can also be applied in the aviation world or space exploration. In this sense, in some countries graphic design is related as only associated with the production of sketches and drawings, this is incorrect, since visual communication is a small part of a huge range of types and classes where it can be applied. 
      Given the rapid and massive growth in information sharing, the demand for experienced designers is greater than ever, particularly because of the development of new technologies and the need to pay attention to human factors beyond the competence of the engineers who develop them.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Terminology 
        2 History 
          
          2.1 The advent of printing 
          2.2 Nineteenth century 
          2.3 Twentieth century 
           
        3 Applications 
        4 Skills 
          
          4.1 Typography 
          4.2 Page layout 
          4.3 Printmaking 
          4.4 Strategy 
           
        5 Tools 
          
          5.1 Computers and software 
           
        6 Related design fields 
          
          6.1 Interface design 
          6.2 User experience design 
          6.3 Experiential graphic design 
           
        7 Occupations 
          
          7.1 Crowdsourcing in graphic design 
           
        8 See also 
          
          8.1 Related areas 
          8.2 Related topics 
           
        9 References 
        10 Bibliography 
        11 External links 
        
       
      Terminology 
      The first known use of the term "graphic design" in the way in which we understand it today was in the 4 July 1908 issue (volume 9, number 27) of Organized Labor, a publication of the Labor Unions of San Francisco, in an article about technical education for printers:  
       
       An Enterprising Trades Union … The admittedly high standard of intelligence which prevails among printers is an assurance that with the elemental principles of design at their finger ends many of them will grow in knowledge and develop into specialists in graphic design and decorating. …  
       
      A decade later, the 1917–1918 course catalog of the California School of Arts &amp; Crafts advertised a course titled Graphic Design and Lettering, which replaced one called Advanced Design and Lettering. Both classes were taught by Frederick Meyer; it is unclear why he changed the name of the course.  
      History 
      
      
       Main article: History of graphic design
       
      The origins of graphic design can be traced from the origins of human existence, from the caves of Lascaux, to Rome's Trajan's Column to the illuminated manuscripts of the Middle Ages, to the neon lights of Ginza, Tokyo. In "Babylon, artisans pressed cuneiform inscriptions into clay bricks or tablets which were used for construction. The bricks gave information such as the name of the reigning monarch, the builder, or some other dignitary". This was the first known road sign announcing the name of the governor of a state or mayor of the city. The Egyptians developed communication by hieroglyphics that used picture symbols dating as far back as 136 B.C. found on the Rosetta Stone. "The Rosetta stone, found by one of Napoleon's engineers was an advertisement for the Egyptian ruler, Ptolemy as the "true Son of the Sun, the Father of the Moon, and the Keeper of the Happiness of Men"  The Egyptians also invented papyrus, paper made from reeds found along the Nile, on which they transcribed advertisements more common among their people at the time. During the "Dark Ages", from 500 AD to 1450 AD, monks created elaborate, illustrated manuscripts. 
      In both its lengthy history and in the relatively recent explosion of visual communication in the 20th and 21st centuries, the distinction between advertising, art, graphic design and fine art has disappeared. They share many elements, theories, principles, practices, languages and sometimes the same benefactor or client. In advertising, the ultimate objective is the sale of goods and services. In graphic design, "the essence is to give order to information, form to ideas, expression, and feeling to artifacts that document the human experience." 
      Graphic design in the United States began with Benjamin Franklin who used his newspaper The Pennsylvania Gazette to master the art of publicity, to promote his own books, and to influence the masses. "Benjamin Franklin's ingenuity gained in strength as did his cunning and in 1737 he had replaced his counterpart in Pennsylvania, Andrew Bradford as postmaster and printer after a competition he instituted and won. He showed his prowess by running an ad in his General Magazine and the Historical Chronicle of British Plantations in America (the precursor to the Saturday Evening Post) that stressed the benefits offered by a stove he invented, named the Pennsylvania Fireplace. His invention is still sold today and is known as the Franklin stove. " 
      American advertising initially imitated British newspapers and magazines. Advertisements were printed in scrambled type and uneven lines, which made them difficult to read. Franklin better organized this by adding a 14-point type for the first line of the advertisement; although later shortened and centered it, making "headlines". Franklin added illustrations, something that London printers had not attempted. Franklin was the first to utilize logos, which were early symbols that announced such services as opticians by displaying golden spectacles. Franklin taught advertisers that the use of detail was important in marketing their products. Some advertisements ran for 10-20 lines, including color, names, varieties, and sizes of the goods that were offered.  
      The advent of printing 
      
      
       Main article: History of printing
       
      During the Tang Dynasty (618–907) wood blocks were cut to print on textiles and later to reproduce Buddhist texts. A Buddhist scripture printed in 868 is the earliest known printed book. Beginning in the 11th century, longer scrolls and books were produced using movable type printing, making books widely available during the Song dynasty (960–1279). 
      During the 17th-18th century movable type was used for handbills or trade cards which were printed from wood or copper engravings. These documents announced a business and its location. English painter William Hogarth used his skill in engraving was one of the first to design for business trade. 
      In Mainz Germany, in 1448, Johannes Gutenberg introduced movable type using a new metal alloy for use in a printing press and opened a new era of commerce. This made graphics more readily available since mass printing dropped the price of printing material significantly. Previously, most advertising was word of mouth. In France and England, for example, criers announced products for sale just as ancient Romans had done. 
      The printing press made books more widely available. Aldus Manutius developed the book structure that became the foundation of western publication design. This era of graphic design is called Humanist or Old Style. Additionally, William Caxton, England's first printer produced religious books, but had trouble selling them. He discovered the use of leftover pages and used them to announce the books and post them on church doors. This practice was termed "squis" or "pin up" posters, in approximately 1612, becoming the first form of print advertising in Europe. The term Siquis came from the Roman era when public notices were posted stating "if anybody...", which in Latin is "si quis". These printed announcements were followed by later public registers of wants called want ads and in some areas such as the first periodical in Paris advertising was termed "advices". The "Advices" were what we know today as want ad media or advice columns. 
      In 1638 Harvard University received a printing press from England. More than 52 years passed before London bookseller Benjamin Harris received another printing press in Boston. Harris published a newspaper in serial form, Publick Occurrences Both Foreign and Domestick. It was four pages long and suppressed by the government after its first edition. 
      John Campbell is credited for the first newspaper, the Boston News-Letter, which appeared in 1704. The paper was known during the revolution as "Weeklies". The name came from the 13 hours required for the ink to dry on each side of the paper. The solution was to first, print the ads and then to print the news on the other side the day before publication. The paper was four pages long having ads on at least 20%-30% of the total paper, (pages one and four) the hot news was located on the inside. The initial use of the Boston News-Letter carried Campbell's own solicitations for advertising from his readers. Campbell's first paid advertisement was in his third edition, May 7 or 8th, 1704. Two of the first ads were for stolen anvils. The third was for real estate in Oyster Bay, owned by William Bradford, a pioneer printer in New York, and the first to sell something of value. Bradford published his first newspaper in 1725, New York's first, the New-York Gazette. Bradford's son preceded him in Philadelphia publishing the American Weekly Mercury, 1719. The Mercury and William Brooker's Massachusetts Gazette, first published a day earlier.  
      Nineteenth century 
      In 1849, Henry Cole became one of the major forces in design education in Great Britain, informing the government of the importance of design in his Journal of Design and Manufactures. He organized the Great Exhibition as a celebration of modern industrial technology and Victorian design. 
      From 1891 to 1896, William Morris' Kelmscott Press published some of the most significant of the graphic design products of the Arts and Crafts movement, and made a lucrative business of creating and selling stylish books. Morris created a market for works of graphic design in their own right and a profession for this new type of art. The Kelmscott Press is characterized by an obsession with historical styles. This historicism was the first significant reaction to the state of nineteenth-century graphic design. Morris' work, along with the rest of the Private Press movement, directly influenced Art Nouveau. 
      During the first half of the ninetieth century, there were diverse styles that were used by various graphic designers. Several examples are Greek, Roman, Classical, Egyptian, and Gothic. The early part of the century has often been regarded as being lackluster for reviving historic styles. However, the latter part of the century would showcase designers using these existing styles as a conceptual framework to expand their own styles. For instance, designer Augustus W.N. Pugin has a quote in the book The True Principles of Pointed or Christian Architecture (1841) that says Gothic is "not a style, but a principle."  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Cover of the Thanksgiving 1895 issue of The Chap-Book, designed by Will H. Bradley
        
       
       
      Will H. Bradley became one of the notable graphic designers in the late nineteenth-century due to creating art pieces in various Art Nouveau styles. Bradley created a number of designs as promotions for a literary magazine titled The Chap-Book. One of them was a Thanksgiving poster that was finished in 1895. The poster is recognized for including a system of curved lines and forms. The poster also borrows elements from Japanese printing styles by using flat colored planes. Bradley's works have proven to be inspiration as the concept of art posters would become more commonplace by the early twentieth century. In addition, art posters would become a significant aspect in the subject of advertising.  
      Twentieth century 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A Boeing 747 aircraft with livery designating it as Air Force One. The cyan forms, the US flag, presidential seal and the Caslon lettering, were all designed at different times, by different designers, for different purposes, and combined by designer Raymond Loewy in this one single aircraft exterior design.
        
       
      
      
       
        
         
         
          
           This section needs expansion with: The developments of this period greatly influenced contemporary graphic design.. You can help by adding to it. (talk) (September 2016)
          
        
       
       
      In 1917, Frederick H. Meyer, director and instructor at the California School of Arts and Crafts, taught a class entitled "Graphic Design and Lettering". Raffe's Graphic Design, published in 1927, was the first book to use "Graphic Design" in its title. 
      The signage in the London Underground is a classic design example of the modern era. Although he lacked artistic training, Frank Pick led the Underground Group design and publicity movement. The first Underground station signs were introduced in 1908 with a design of a solid red disk with a blue bar in the center and the name of the station. The station name was in white sans-serif letters. It was in 1916 when Pick used the expertise of Edward Johnston to design a new typeface for the Underground. Johnston redesigned the Underground sign and logo to include his typeface on the blue bar in the center of a red circle. 
      In the 1920s, Soviet constructivism applied 'intellectual production' in different spheres of production. The movement saw individualistic art as useless in revolutionary Russia and thus moved towards creating objects for utilitarian purposes. They designed buildings, theater sets, posters, fabrics, clothing, furniture, logos, menus, etc. 
      Jan Tschichold codified the principles of modern typography in his 1928 book, New Typography. He later repudiated the philosophy he espoused in this book as fascistic, but it remained influential. Tschichold, Bauhaus typographers such as Herbert Bayer and László Moholy-Nagy and El Lissitzky greatly influenced graphic design. They pioneered production techniques and stylistic devices used throughout the twentieth century. The following years saw graphic design in the modern style gain widespread acceptance and application. 
      The post-World War II American economy revealed a greater need for graphic design, mainly in advertising and packaging. The spread of the German Bauhaus school of design to Chicago in 1937 brought a "mass-produced" minimalism to America; sparking "modern" architecture and design. Notable names in mid-century modern design include Adrian Frutiger, designer of the typefaces Univers and Frutiger; Paul Rand, who took the principles of the Bauhaus and applied them to popular advertising and logo design, helping to create a uniquely American approach to European minimalism while becoming one of the principal pioneers of corporate identity, a subset of graphic design. Alex Steinweiss is credited with the invention of the album cover; and Josef Müller-Brockmann, who designed posters in a severe yet accessible manner typical of the 1950s and 1970s era. 
      The professional graphic design industry grew in parallel with consumerism. This raised concerns and criticisms, notably from within the graphic design community with the First Things First manifesto. First launched by Ken Garland in 1964, it was re-published as the First Things First 2000 manifesto in 1999 in the magazine Emigre 51 stating "We propose a reversal of priorities in favor of more useful, lasting and democratic forms of communication - a mindshift away from product marketing and toward the exploration and production of a new kind of meaning. The scope of debate is shrinking; it must expand. Consumerism is running uncontested; it must be challenged by other perspectives expressed, in part, through the visual languages and resources of design." Both editions attracted signatures from practitioners and thinkers such as Rudy VanderLans, Erik Spiekermann, Ellen Lupton and Rick Poynor. The 2000 manifesto was also published in Adbusters, known for its strong critiques of visual culture.  
      Applications 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Colour
        
       
       
      Graphic design is applied to everything visual, from road signs to technical schematics, from interoffice memorandums to reference manuals. 
      Design can aid in selling a product or idea. It is applied to products and elements of company identity such as logos, colors, packaging and text as part of branding (see also advertising). Branding has become increasingly more important in the range of services offered by graphic designers. Graphic designers often form part of a branding team. 
      Graphic design is applied in the entertainment industry in decoration, scenery and visual story telling. Other examples of design for entertainment purposes include novels, vinyl album covers, comic books, DVD covers, opening credits and closing credits in filmmaking, and programs and props on stage. This could also include artwork used for T-shirts and other items screenprinted for sale. 
      From scientific journals to news reporting, the presentation of opinion and facts is often improved with graphics and thoughtful compositions of visual information - known as information design. Newspapers, magazines, blogs, television and film documentaries may use graphic design. With the advent of the web, information designers with experience in interactive tools are increasingly used to illustrate the background to news stories. Information design can include data visualization, which involves using programs to interpret and form data into a visually compelling presentation, and can be tied in with information graphics.  
      Skills 
      A graphic design project may involve the stylization and presentation of existing text and either preexisting imagery or images developed by the graphic designer. Elements can be incorporated in both traditional and digital form, which involves the use of visual arts, typography, and page layout techniques. Graphic designers organize pages and optionally add graphic elements. Graphic designers can commission photographers or illustrators to create original pieces. Designers use digital tools, often referred to as interactive design, or multimedia design. Designers need communication skills to convince an audience and sell their designs. 
      The "process school" is concerned with communication; it highlights the channels and media through which messages are transmitted and by which senders and receivers encode and decode these messages. The semiotic school treats a message as a construction of signs which through interaction with receivers, produces meaning; communication as an agent.  
      Typography 
      
      
       Main article: Typography
       
      Typography includes type design, modifying type glyphs and arranging type. Type glyphs (characters) are created and modified using illustration techniques. Type arrangement is the selection of typefaces, point size, tracking (the space between all characters used), kerning (the space between two specific characters) and leading (line spacing). 
      Typography is performed by typesetters, compositors, typographers, graphic artists, art directors, and clerical workers. Until the digital age, typography was a specialized occupation. Certain fonts communicate or resemble stereotypical notions. For example, 1942 Report is a font which types text akin to a typewriter or a vintage report.  
      Page layout 
      
      
       Main article: Page layout
      
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Golden section in book design
        
       
       
      Page layout deals with the arrangement of elements (content) on a page, such as image placement, text layout and style. Page design has always been a consideration in printed material and more recently extended to displays such as web pages. Elements typically consist of type (text), images (pictures), and (with print media) occasionally place-holder graphics such as a dieline for elements that are not printed with ink such as die/laser cutting, foil stamping or blind embossing.  
      Printmaking 
      
      
       Main article: Printmaking
      
       Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing on paper and other materials or surfaces. The process is capable of producing multiples of the same work, each called a print. Each print is an original, technically known as an impression. Prints are created from a single original surface, technically a matrix. A matrix is essentially a template, and can be made of wood, metal, or glass. The design is created on the matrix by working its flat surface with either tools or chemical. Common types of matrices include: plates of metal, usually copper or zinc for engraving or etching; stone, used for lithography; blocks of wood for woodcuts, linoleum for lino-cuts and fabric plates for screen-printing. Works printed from a single plate create an edition, in modern times usually each signed and numbered to form a limited edition. Prints may be published in book form, as artist's books. A single print could be the product of one or multiple techniques.
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The pencil is one of the most basic graphic design tools.
        
       
       
      Aside from technology, graphic design requires judgment and creativity. Critical, observational, quantitative and analytic thinking are required for design layouts and rendering. If the executor is merely following a solution (e.g. sketch, script or instructions) provided by another designer (such as an art director), then the executor is not usually considered the designer.  
      Strategy 
      Strategy is becoming more and more essential to effective graphic design. The main distinction between graphic design and art is that graphic design solves a problem as well as being aesthetically pleasing. This balance is where strategy comes in. It is important for a graphic designer to understand their clients' needs, as well as the needs of the people who will be interacting with the design. It is the designer's job to combine business and creative objectives to elevate the design beyond purely aesthetic means.  
      Tools 
      The method of presentation (e.g. Arrangements, style, medium) is important to the design. The development and presentation tools can change how an audience perceives a project. The image or layout is produced using traditional media and guides, or digital image editing tools on computers. Tools in computer graphics often take on traditional names such as "scissors" or "pen". Some graphic design tools such as a grid are used in both traditional and digital form. 
      In the mid-1980s desktop publishing and graphic art software applications introduced computer image manipulation and creation capabilities that had previously been manually executed. Computers enabled designers to instantly see the effects of layout or typographic changes, and to simulate the effects of traditional media. Traditional tools such as pencils can be useful even when computers are used for finalization; a designer or art director may sketch numerous concepts as part of the creative process. Styluses can be used with tablet computers to capture hand drawings digitally.  
      Computers and software 
      Designers disagree whether computers enhance the creative process. Some designers argue that computers allow them to explore multiple ideas quickly and in more detail than can be achieved by hand-rendering or paste-up. While other designers find the limitless choices from digital design can lead to paralysis or endless iterations with no clear outcome. 
      Most designers use a hybrid process that combines traditional and computer-based technologies. First, hand-rendered layouts are used to get approval to execute an idea, then the polished visual product is produced on a computer. 
      Graphic designers are expected to be proficient in software programs for image-making, typography and layout. Nearly all of the popular and "industry standard" software programs used by graphic designers since the early 1990s are products of Adobe Systems Incorporated. Adobe Photoshop (a raster-based program for photo editing) and Adobe Illustrator (a vector-based program for drawing) are often used in the final stage. Some designers across the world use CorelDraw. CorelDraw is a vector graphics editor software developed and marketed by Corel Corporation. Open source software used to edit the vector graphis is Inkscape. Primary file format used in Inkscape is Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG). You can import or export the file in any other vector format. Designers often use pre-designed raster images and vector graphics in their work from online design databases. Raster images may be edited in Adobe Photoshop, vector logos and illustrations in Adobe Illustrator and CorelDraw, and the final product assembled in one of the major page layout programs, such as Adobe InDesign, Serif PagePlus and QuarkXpress. 
      Powerful open-source programs (which are free) are also used by both professionals and casual users for graphic design, these include Inkscape (for vector graphics), GIMP (for photo-editing and image manipulation), Krita (for painting), and Scribus (for page layout).  
      Related design fields 
      Interface design 
      
      
       Main article: User interface design
       
      Since the advent of personal computers, many graphic designers have become involved in interface design, in an environment commonly referred to as a Graphical User Interface (GUI). This has included web design and software design when end user-interactivity is a design consideration of the layout or interface. Combining visual communication skills with an understanding of user interaction and online branding, graphic designers often work with software developers and web developers to create the look and feel of a web site or software application. An important aspect of interface design is icon design.  
      User experience design 
      
      
       Main article: User experience design
       
      User experience design (UX) is the study, analysis, and development of creating products that provide meaningful and relevant experiences to users. This involves the creation of the entire process of acquiring and integrating the product, including aspects of branding, design, usability, and function.  
      Experiential graphic design 
      Experiential graphic design is the application of communication skills to the built environment. This area of graphic design requires practitioners to understand physical installations that have to be manufactured and withstand the same environmental conditions as buildings. As such, it is a cross-disciplinary collaborative process involving designers, fabricators, city planners, architects, manufacturers and construction teams. 
      Experiential graphic designers try to solve problems that people encounter while interacting with buildings and space (also called environmental graphic design). Examples of practice areas for environmental graphic designers are wayfinding, placemaking, branded environments, exhibitions and museum displays, public installations and digital environments.  
      Occupations 
      
      
       Main article: Graphic design occupations
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Graphic symbols are often functionalist and anonymous, as these pictographs from the US National Park Service illustrate.
        
       
       
      Graphic design career paths cover all parts of the creative spectrum and often overlap. Workers perform specialized tasks, such as design services, publishing, advertising and public relations. As of 2017, median pay was $48,700 per year. The main job titles within the industry are often country specific. They can include graphic designer, art director, creative director, animator and entry level production artist. Depending on the industry served, the responsibilities may have different titles such as "DTP Associate" or "Graphic Artist". The responsibilities may involve specialized skills such as illustration, photography, animation, visual effects or interactive design. 
      Employment in design of online projects was expected to increase by 35% by 2026, while employment in traditional media, such as newspaper and book design, expect to go down by 22%. Graphic designers will be expected to constantly learn new techniques, programs, and methods. 
      Graphic designers can work within companies devoted specifically to the industry, such as design consultancies or branding agencies, others may work within publishing, marketing or other communications companies. Especially since the introduction of personal computers, many graphic designers work as in-house designers in non-design oriented organizations. Graphic designers may also work freelance, working on their own terms, prices, ideas, etc. 
      A graphic designer typically reports to the art director, creative director or senior media creative. As a designer becomes more senior, they spend less time designing and more time leading and directing other designers on broader creative activities, such as brand development and corporate identity development. They are often expected to interact more directly with clients, for example taking and interpreting briefs.  
      Crowdsourcing in graphic design 
      
      
       Main article: Crowdsourcing creative work
       
      Jeff Howe of Wired Magazine first used the term "crowdsourcing" in his 2006 article, "The Rise of Crowdsourcing." It spans such creative domains as graphic design, architecture, apparel design, writing, illustration etc. Tasks may be assigned to individuals or a group and may be categorized as convergent or divergent. An example of a divergent task is generating alternative designs for a poster. An example of a convergent task is selecting one poster design. Companies, Startups, Small businesses &amp; Entrepreneurs have all benefitted a lot from design crowdsourcing since it helps them source great graphic designs at a fraction of the budget they used to spend before. Getting a logo design through crowdsourcing being one of the most common. Major companies who operate in the design crowdsourcing space are generally referred to as design contest sites.  
      See also 
      
       
        
        Visual arts portal
       
       
      Related areas 
      
       
       
        Concept art 
        Copywriting 
        Digital illustration 
        Illustration 
        Information technology 
        Instructional design 
        Landscape architecture 
        Marketing communications 
        Motion graphic design 
        New media 
        Technical illustration 
        Technical writing 
        User Experience Design 
        User Interface Design 
        Visual communication 
        Communication design 
        Visual culture 
        Visual Art 
        Fine Art
       
       
      Related topics 
      
       
       
        Aesthetics 
        Color theory 
        Design principles and elements 
        European Design Award 
        "First Things First 2000" 
        Infographic 
        List of graphic design institutions 
        List of notable graphic designers 
        Logotype 
        Material culture 
        Style guide 
        Value 
        Visualization (computer graphics) 
        International Typographic Style
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Vise, Kristen. "An Interdisciplinary Approach to Graphic Design". College of Liberal Arts. Archived from the original on April 14, 2021. Retrieved October 13, 2021.  
         ^ 
           Wong, Wucius (1995). Principles of Form and Design.  
         ^ 
           Eveleth, Rose (July 25, 2014). "How Graphic Design Can Make Flying Just a Little Bit Safer". nautil.us. Nautilus. Archived from the original on November 11, 2020. Retrieved January 3, 2021.  
         ^ 
           Junkunc, Ashley (October 22, 2019). "NASA needs more than just rocket scientists". udayton.edu. University of Dayton. Archived from the original on October 20, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.  
         ^ 
           Monaghan, Heather (March 4, 2021). "We Are NASA: Reese Patillo, Junior Animator/Graphic Designer (Contractor)". nasa.gov. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Archived from the original on October 14, 2021. Retrieved October 14, 2021.  
         ^ 
           Frascara, Jorge (1988). Diseño y Comunicación.  
         ^ Paul Shaw, Blue Pencil no. 46—Yet more on the early history of the term “graphic design” Archived 2021-11-27 at the Wayback Machine, 1 June 2020.  
         ^ Paul Shaw, "The Definitive Dwiggins no. 81—Who Coined the Term 'Graphic Design'? Archived 2021-11-27 at the Wayback Machine", Blue Pencil, 7 January 2018.  
         ^ a b 
           Ulanoff, Stanley M. Advertising In America.  
         ^ Meggs, Philip B., 'A history of graphic design'. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1983  
         ^ a b Advertising Age. How It Was In Advertising: 1776-1976. Chicago, Illinois: Crain Books, 1976.  
         ^ 
           Wilkinson, Endymion (2000). Chinese History. Cambridge: Harvard University Asia Center. p.&nbsp;450. ISBN&nbsp;0674002490.  
         ^ Fiona McCarthy, William Morris, London: Faber and Faber, 1996 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-571-17495-7  
         ^ 
           Jobling, Paul; Crowley, Paul Jobling &amp; David; Crowley, David (1996). Graphic Design: Reproduction and Representation Since 1800. Manchester University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-7190-4467-0. Archived from the original on 2021-04-11. Retrieved 2020-12-11.  
         ^ 
           Eskilson, Stephen J. (2019-05-21). Graphic Design: A New History, Third Edition. Yale University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-300-23328-5. Archived from the original on 2021-04-15. Retrieved 2020-12-11.  
         ^ 
           Shaw, Paul. "W.A. Dwiggins and "graphic design": A brief rejoinder to Steven Heller and Bruce Kennett". www.paulshawletterdesign.com. Archived from the original on 2020-08-08. Retrieved 2020-05-23.  
         ^ 
           Baker, Steve (1990). "The Sign of the Self in the Metropolis". Journal of Design History. Oxford University Press. 3 (4): 228. doi:10.1093/jdh/3.4.227. JSTOR&nbsp;1315763.  
         ^ 
           "Designing Modern Britain - Design Museum Exhibition". Archived from the original on January 7, 2010. Retrieved December 10, 2009.  
         ^ 
           Meggs, Philip (1998). A History of Graphic Design. New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. pp.&nbsp;229–230. ISBN&nbsp;0-471-29198-6.  
         ^ 
           White, Alex W. (2010-09-21). Advertising Design and Typography. Allworth Press. ISBN&nbsp;9781581158205. Archived from the original on 2021-04-15. Retrieved 2018-01-11.  
         ^ Crouch, Christopher. 2000. Modernism in Art Design and Architecture, New York: St. Martin's Press. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-312-21830-3 (cloth) 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-312-21832-X (pbk)  
         ^ 
           "฿Emigre Essays". Emigre.com. Archived from the original on 2012-01-06. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  
         ^ 
           "max bruinsma". Maxbruinsma.nl. Archived from the original on 2011-12-19. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  
         ^ Butterick, Matthew. "Butterick's Practical Typography." Butterick's Practical Typography. Jones McClure, 2010-14. Web. 17 Feb. 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2022-01-20. Retrieved 2022-01-17.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           Stone, Terry Lee (2013-02-22). "Understanding Design Strategy: Effective Graphic Design for Clients". HOW Design. Archived from the original on 2018-10-27. Retrieved 2019-02-22.  
         ^ Jacci Howard Bear, desktoppub.about.com Archived 2013-12-06 at the Wayback Machine Retrieved 2008-03-19  
         ^ Milton Glaser Draws &amp; Lectures Archived 2014-03-21 at the Wayback Machine. retrieved 31-01-2011  
         ^ Designtalkboard.com Archived 2007-06-29 at the Wayback Machine, topic 1030 and Designtalkboard.com Archived 2018-06-12 at the Wayback Machine, topic 1141. retrieved 3-18-2007  
         ^ Jann Lawrence Pollard and Jerry James Little, Creative Computer Tools for Artists: Using Software to Develop Drawings and Paintings, November 2001 Introduction  
         ^ 
           "1.0 Experiential Graphic Design: A Physical Relationship" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2021-04-13. Retrieved 2021-04-13.  
         ^ 
           Currie, Nick. "Design Rockism". Archived from the original on 2007-04-05.  
         ^ 
           "Graphic Designers: Occupational Outlook Handbook: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics". www.bls.gov. Archived from the original on 2017-10-27. Retrieved 2018-06-29.  
         ^ 
           "Graphic Designers&nbsp;: Occupational Outlook Handbook:&nbsp;: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics". www.bls.gov. Archived from the original on 2017-10-27. Retrieved 2017-10-27.  
         ^ 
           Howe, Jeff. "The Rise of Crowdsourcing". Wired. WIRED Magazine. Archived from the original on 9 February 2014. Retrieved 24 October 2013.  
         ^ 
           Gilmour, Julia (15 August 2013). "The Long History of Crowdsourcing – and Why You're Just Now Hearing About It". Crowdsource.com. Archived from the original on 29 August 2014. Retrieved 24 October 2013.  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       Fiell, Charlotte and Fiell, Peter (editors). Contemporary Graphic Design. Taschen Publishers, 2008. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-8228-5269-9 
       Wiedemann, Julius and Taborda, Felipe (editors). Latin-American Graphic Design. Taschen Publishers, 2008. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-8228-4035-1
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Graphic Design
         
       
       
      
        Media related to Graphic design at Wikimedia Commons 
       The Universal Arts of Graphic Design – Documentary produced by Off Book 
       Graphic Designers, entry in the Occupational Outlook Handbook of the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Visualization of technical information
           
         
         
          Fields
          
            
            
             Biological data visualization 
             Chemical imaging 
             Crime mapping 
             Data visualization 
             Educational visualization 
             Flow visualization 
             Geovisualization 
             Information visualization 
             Mathematical visualization 
             Medical imaging 
             Molecular graphics 
             Product visualization 
             Scientific visualization 
             Software visualization 
             Technical drawing 
             User interface design 
             Visual culture 
             Volume visualization
             
           
         
         
          Image types
          
            
            
             Chart 
             Diagram 
             Engineering drawing 
             Graph of a function 
             Ideogram 
             Map 
             Photograph 
             Pictogram 
             Plot 
             Sankey diagram 
             Schematic 
             Skeletal formula 
             Statistical graphics 
             Table 
             Technical drawings 
             Technical illustration
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Jacques Bertin 
             Cynthia Brewer 
             Stuart Card 
             Sheelagh Carpendale 
             Thomas A. DeFanti 
             Borden Dent 
             Michael Friendly 
             George Furnas 
             Pat Hanrahan 
             Nigel Holmes 
             Christopher R. Johnson 
             Gordon Kindlmann 
             August Kekulé 
             Manuel Lima 
             Alan MacEachren 
             Jock D. Mackinlay 
             Michael Maltz 
             Bruce H. McCormick 
             Miriah Meyer 
             Charles Joseph Minard 
             Rudolf Modley 
             Gaspard Monge 
             Tamara Munzner 
             Otto Neurath 
             Florence Nightingale 
             Hanspeter Pfister 
             Clifford A. Pickover 
             Catherine Plaisant 
             William Playfair 
             Karl Wilhelm Pohlke 
             Adolphe Quetelet 
             George G. Robertson 
             Arthur H. Robinson 
             Lawrence J. Rosenblum 
             Ben Shneiderman 
             Claudio Silva 
             Fraser Stoddart 
             Edward Tufte 
             Fernanda Viégas 
             Ade Olufeko 
             Howard Wainer 
             Martin Wattenberg 
             Bang Wong 
             Mauro Martino 
             Moritz Stefaner
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Cartography 
             Chartjunk 
             Computer graphics 
              
               in computer science
               
             CPK coloring 
             Graph drawing 
             Graphic design 
             Graphic organizer 
             Imaging science 
             Information graphics 
             Information science 
             Misleading graph 
             Neuroimaging 
             Patent drawing 
             Scientific modelling 
             Spatial analysis 
             Visual analytics 
             Visual perception 
             Volume cartography 
             Volume rendering 
             Information art
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Designer
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Disciplines
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Communicationdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Advertising 
                     Book design 
                     Brand design 
                     Exhibit design 
                     Film title design 
                     Graphic design 
                      
                       Motion 
                       Postage stamp design 
                       Print design
                       
                     Illustration 
                     Information design 
                     Instructional design 
                     News design 
                     Photography 
                     Retail design 
                     Signage&nbsp;/ Traffic sign design 
                     Typography&nbsp;/ Type design 
                     Video design 
                     Visual merchandising
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Environmentaldesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Architecture 
                     Architectural lighting design 
                     Building design 
                      
                       Passive solar
                       
                     Ecological design 
                     Environmental impact design 
                     Garden design 
                      
                       Computer-aided
                       
                     Healthy community design 
                     Hotel design 
                     Interior architecture 
                     Interior design 
                      
                       EID
                       
                     Keyline design 
                     Landscape architecture 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Landscape design 
                     Spatial design 
                     Urban design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Industrialdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Automotive design 
                     Automotive suspension design 
                     CMF design 
                     Corrugated box design 
                     Electric guitar design 
                     Furniture design 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Motorcycle design 
                     Packaging and labeling 
                     Photographic lens design 
                     Product design 
                     Production design 
                     Sensory design 
                     Service design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Interactiondesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Experience design 
                      
                       EED
                       
                     Game design 
                      
                       Level design 
                       Video game design
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Icon design 
                     Immersive design 
                     Information design 
                     Sonic interaction design 
                     User experience design 
                     User interface design 
                     Web design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherapplied arts
                  
                    
                    
                     Public art design 
                     Ceramic&nbsp;/ glass design 
                     Fashion design 
                      
                       Costume design 
                       Jewellery design
                       
                     Floral design 
                     Game art design 
                     Property design 
                     Scenic design 
                     Sound design 
                     Stage/set lighting design 
                     Textile design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherdesign&amp; engineering
                  
                    
                    
                     Algorithm design 
                     Behavioural design 
                     Boiler design 
                     Database design 
                     Drug design 
                     Electrical system design 
                     Experimental design 
                     Filter design 
                     Geometric design 
                     Work design 
                     Integrated circuit design 
                      
                       Circuit design 
                       Physical design 
                       Power network design
                       
                     Mechanism design 
                     Nuclear weapon design 
                     Nucleic acid design 
                     Organization design 
                     Process design 
                     Processor design 
                     Protein design 
                     Research design 
                     Social design 
                     Software design 
                     Spacecraft design 
                     Strategic design 
                     Systems design
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Approaches
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Activity-centered 
                 Adaptive web 
                 Affective 
                 Brainstorming 
                 By committee 
                 By contract 
                 C-K theory 
                 Closure 
                 Co-design 
                 Concept-oriented 
                 Configuration 
                 Contextual 
                 Continuous 
                 Cradle-to-cradle 
                 Creative problem-solving 
                 Creativity techniques 
                 Critical 
                  
                   Design fiction
                   
                 Defensive 
                 Design–bid–build 
                 Design–build 
                  
                   architect-led
                   
                 Diffuse 
                 Domain-driven 
                 Ecological design 
                 Energy neutral 
                 Engineering design process 
                  
                   Probabilistic design
                   
                 Error-tolerant 
                 Fault-tolerant 
                 Framework-oriented 
                 For assembly 
                 For behaviour change 
                 For manufacturability 
                 For Six Sigma 
                 For testing 
                 For X 
                 Functional 
                 Generative 
                 Geodesign 
                 HCD 
                 High-level 
                 Inclusive 
                 Integrated 
                 Integrated topside 
                 Intelligence-based 
                 Iterative 
                 KISS principle 
                 Low-level 
                 Metadesign 
                 Mind mapping 
                 Modular 
                 New Wave 
                 Object-oriented 
                 Open 
                 Parametric 
                 Participatory 
                 Platform-based 
                 Policy-based 
                 Process-centered 
                 Public interest 
                 Rational 
                 Regenerative 
                 Reliability engineering 
                 Research-based 
                 Responsibility-driven 
                 RWD 
                 Safe-life 
                 Sustainable 
                 Systemic 
                  
                   SOD
                   
                 Tableless web 
                 Theory of constraints 
                 Top-down and bottom-up 
                 Transformation 
                 Transgenerational 
                 TRIZ 
                 Universal 
                  
                   Design for All
                   
                 Usage-centered 
                 Use-centered 
                 User-centered 
                  
                   Empathic
                   
                 User innovation 
                 Value-driven 
                 Value sensitive 
                  
                   Privacy by
                  
                 
                
                 Design choice 
                 computing 
                 controls 
                 culture 
                 flow 
                 leadership 
                 management 
                 marker 
                 methods 
                 pattern 
                 research 
                 science 
                 sprint 
                 strategy 
                 theory 
                 thinking
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  Intellectual property
                  Organizations
                  Awards
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  
                    
                    
                     AAD 
                     Architectural model 
                     Blueprint 
                     Comprehensive layout 
                     CAD 
                      
                       CAID 
                       Virtual home design software
                       
                     CAutoD 
                     Design quality indicator 
                     Electronic design automation 
                     Flowchart 
                     Mockup 
                     Design specification 
                     Prototype 
                     Sketch 
                     Storyboard 
                     Technical drawing 
                     HTML editor 
                     Website wireframe
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Intellectualproperty
                  
                    
                    
                     Community design 
                     Design around 
                     Design infringement 
                     Design patent 
                     Fashion design copyright 
                     Geschmacksmuster 
                     Industrial design rights 
                      
                       European Union
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Organizations
                  
                    
                    
                     American Institute of Graphic Arts 
                     Chartered Society of Designers 
                     Design and Industries Association 
                     Design Council 
                     International Forum Design 
                     The Design Society 
                     Design Research Society
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Awards
                  
                    
                    
                     European Design Award 
                     German Design Award 
                     Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
                     Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
                     Graphex 
                     IF Product Design Award 
                     James Dyson Award 
                     Prince Philip Designers Prize
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related topics
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Aesthetics 
                 Agile 
                 Concept art 
                 Conceptual design 
                 Creative industries 
                 Cultural icon 
                 .design 
                 Enterprise architecture 
                 Form factor 
                 Futures studies 
                 Indie design 
                 Innovation management 
                 Intelligent design 
                 Lean startup 
                 New product development 
                 OODA loop 
                 Philosophy of design 
                 Process simulation 
                 Slow design 
                 STEAM fields 
                 Unintelligent design 
                 Visualization 
                 Wicked problem
                 
                
                 Design brief 
                 change 
                 classic 
                 competition 
                  
                   architectural 
                   student
                   
                 director 
                 education 
                 elements and principles 
                 engineer 
                 firm 
                 history 
                 knowledge 
                 language 
                 life 
                 load 
                 museum 
                 paradigm 
                 rationale 
                 review 
                 specification 
                 studies 
                 studio 
                 technology
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Commons  
              Wikibooks  
              Wikinews  
              Wikiquote  
              Wikisource  
              Wiktionary 
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Graphic_design&amp;oldid=1070207290"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Graphic design
       Communication design
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from January 2017
       Articles to be expanded from September 2016
       All articles to be expanded
       Articles using small message boxes
       Articles with unsourced statements from July 2007
       Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       Wikiversity
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Asturianu
       Azərbaycanca
       বাংলা
       Български
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       Frysk
       Gaeilge
       Galego
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ქართული
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Монгол
       မြန်မာဘာသာ
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       کوردی
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Tagalog
       தமிழ்
       ไทย
       Türkçe
       Тыва дыл
       Українська
       اردو
       Tiếng Việt
       吴语
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 February 2022, at 08:11&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
