
 
  
   
  Compound-term processing - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Compound-term processing 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Compound term processing)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Compound-term processing, in information-retrieval, is search result matching on the basis of compound terms. Compound terms are built by combining two or more simple terms; for example, "triple" is a single word term, but "triple heart bypass" is a compound term. 
      Compound-term processing is a new approach to an old problem: how can one improve the relevance of search results while maintaining ease of use? Using this technique, a search for survival rates following a triple heart bypass in elderly people will locate documents about this topic even if this precise phrase is not contained in any document. This can be performed by a concept search, which itself uses compound-term processing. This will extract the key concepts automatically (in this case "survival rates", "triple heart bypass" and "elderly people") and use these concepts to select the most relevant documents.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Techniques 
        2 History 
        3 Adaptability 
        4 Applications 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        
       
      Techniques 
      In August 2003, Concept Searching Limited introduced the idea of using statistical compound-term processing. 
      CLAMOUR is a European collaborative project which aims to find a better way to classify when collecting and disseminating industrial information and statistics. CLAMOUR appears to use a linguistic approach, rather than one based on statistical modelling.  
      History 
      Techniques for probabilistic weighting of single word terms date back to at least 1976 in the landmark publication by Stephen E. Robertson and Karen Spärck Jones. Robertson stated that the assumption of word independence is not justified and exists as a matter of mathematical convenience. His objection to the term independence is not a new idea, dating back to at least 1964 when H. H. Williams stated that "he assumption of independence of words in a document is usually made as a matter of mathematical convenience". 
      In 2004, Anna Lynn Patterson filed patents on "phrase-based searching in an information retrieval system" to which Google subsequently acquired the rights.  
      Adaptability 
      Statistical compound-term processing is more adaptable than the process described by Patterson. Her process is targeted at searching the World Wide Web where an extensive statistical knowledge of common searches can be used to identify candidate phrases. Statistical compound term processing is more suited to enterprise search applications where such a priori knowledge is not available. 
      Statistical compound-term processing is also more adaptable than the linguistic approach taken by the CLAMOUR project, which must consider the syntactic properties of the terms (i.e. part of speech, gender, number, etc.) and their combinations. CLAMOUR is highly language-dependent, whereas the statistical approach is language-independent.  
      Applications 
      Compound-term processing allows information-retrieval applications, such as search engines, to perform their matching on the basis of multi-word concepts, rather than on single words in isolation which can be highly ambiguous. 
      Early search engines looked for documents containing the words entered by the user into the search box . These are known as keyword search engines. Boolean search engines add a degree of sophistication by allowing the user to specify additional requirements. For example, "Tiger NEAR Woods AND (golf OR golfing) NOT Volkswagen" uses the operators "NEAR", "AND", "OR" and "NOT" to specify that these words must follow certain requirements. A phrase search is simpler to use, but requires that the exact phrase specified appear in the results.  
      See also 
      
       Concept Searching Limited 
       Enterprise search 
       Information retrieval
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ "Lateral Thinking in Information Retrieval" (PDF). Information Management and Technology. 36 PART 4. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-11-15. Retrieved 2008-06-20. The British Library Direct catalogue entry can be found here: Archived 2012-02-10 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^  National Statistics CLAMOUR project  
        ^ 
          Robertson, S. E.; Spärck Jones, K. (1976). "Relevance weighting of search terms". Journal of the American Society for Information Science. 27 (3): 129. doi:10.1002/asi.4630270302.  
        ^ 
          WILLIAMS, J.H. (1965). "Results of classifying documents with multiple discriminant functions". Statistical Association Methods for Mechanized Documentation, National Bureau of Standards. Washington: 217–224. Archived from the original on 2011-07-17. Retrieved 2015-05-21.  
        ^ US 20060031195&nbsp;  
        ^ Google Acquires Cuil Patent Applications  
       
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Natural language processing
           
         
         
          General terms
          
            
            
             AI-complete 
             Bag-of-words 
             n-gram 
              
               Bigram 
               Trigram
               
             Computational linguistics 
             Natural-language understanding 
             Stop words 
             Text processing
             
           
         
         
          Text analysis
          
            
            
             Collocation extraction 
             Concept mining 
             Coreference resolution 
             Deep linguistic processing 
             Distant reading 
             Information extraction 
             Named-entity recognition 
             Ontology learning 
             Parsing 
             Part-of-speech tagging 
             Semantic role labeling 
             Semantic similarity 
             Sentiment analysis 
             Terminology extraction 
             Text mining 
             Textual entailment 
             Truecasing 
             Word-sense disambiguation 
             Word-sense induction
             
           
           
            
             
              Text segmentation
              
                
                
                 Compound-term processing 
                 Lemmatisation 
                 Lexical analysis 
                 Text chunking 
                 Stemming 
                 Sentence segmentation 
                 Word segmentation
                 
               
             
            
           
            
           
         
         
          Automatic summarization
          
            
            
             Multi-document summarization 
             Sentence extraction 
             Text simplification
             
           
         
         
          Machine translation
          
            
            
             Computer-assisted 
             Example-based 
             Rule-based 
             Statistical 
             Transfer-based 
             Neural
             
           
         
         
          Distributional semantics models
          
            
            
             BERT 
             Document-term matrix 
             Explicit semantic analysis 
             fastText 
             GloVe 
             Latent semantic analysis 
             Word embedding 
             Word2vec
             
           
         
         
          Language resources, datasets and corpora
          
           
           
            
             
              Types and standards
              
                
                
                 Corpus linguistics 
                 Lexical resource 
                 Linguistic Linked Open Data 
                 Machine-readable dictionary 
                 Parallel text 
                 PropBank 
                 Semantic network 
                 Simple Knowledge Organization System 
                 Speech corpus 
                 Text corpus 
                 Thesaurus (information retrieval) 
                 Treebank 
                 Universal Dependencies
                 
               
             
             
              Data
              
                
                
                 BabelNet 
                 Bank of English 
                 DBpedia 
                 FrameNet 
                 Google Ngram Viewer 
                 ThoughtTreasure 
                 UBY 
                 WordNet
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Automatic identificationand data capture
          
            
            
             Speech recognition 
             Speech segmentation 
             Speech synthesis 
             Natural language generation 
             Optical character recognition
             
           
         
         
          Topic model
          
            
            
             Document classification 
             Latent Dirichlet allocation 
             Pachinko allocation
             
           
         
         
          Computer-assistedreviewing
          
            
            
             Automated essay scoring 
             Concordancer 
             Grammar checker 
             Predictive text 
             Spell checker 
             Syntax guessing
             
           
         
         
          Natural languageuser interface
          
            
            
             Chatbot 
             Interactive fiction 
             Question answering 
             Virtual assistant 
             Voice user interface
             
           
         
         
          Other software
          
            
            
             Natural Language Toolkit 
             spaCy
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Compound-term_processing&amp;oldid=997530676"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information retrieval techniques
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1: long volume value
       Webarchive template wayback links
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Español
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 1 January 2021, at 00:05&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
