
 
  
   
  Cross-language information retrieval - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Cross-language information retrieval 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Cross-language information retrieval"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (September 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) is a subfield of information retrieval dealing with retrieving information written in a language different from the language of the user's query. The term "cross-language information retrieval" has many synonyms, of which the following are perhaps the most frequent: cross-lingual information retrieval, translingual information retrieval, multilingual information retrieval. The term "multilingual information retrieval" refers more generally both to technology for retrieval of multilingual collections and to technology which has been moved to handle material in one language to another. The term Multilingual Information Retrieval (MLIR) involves the study of systems that accept queries for information in various languages and return objects (text, and other media) of various languages, translated into the user's language. Cross-language information retrieval refers more specifically to the use case where users formulate their information need in one language and the system retrieves relevant documents in another. To do so, most CLIR systems use various translation techniques. CLIR techniques can be classified into different categories based on different translation resources:  
      
       Dictionary-based CLIR techniques 
       Parallel corpora based CLIR techniques 
       Comparable corpora based CLIR techniques 
       Machine translator based CLIR techniques
       
      CLIR systems have improved so much that the most accurate multi-lingual and cross-lingual adhoc information retrieval systems today are nearly as effective as monolingual systems. Other related information access tasks, such as media monitoring, information filtering and routing, sentiment analysis, and information extraction require more sophisticated models and typically more processing and analysis of the information items of interest. Much of that processing needs to be aware of the specifics of the target languages it is deployed in. 
      Mostly, the various mechanisms of variation in human language pose coverage challenges for information retrieval systems: texts in a collection may treat a topic of interest but use terms or expressions which do not match the expression of information need given by the user. This can be true even in a mono-lingual case, but this is especially true in cross-lingual information retrieval, where users may know the target language only to some extent. The benefits of CLIR technology for users with poor to moderate competence in the target language has been found to be greater than for those who are fluent. Specific technologies in place for CLIR services include morphological analysis to handle inflection, decompounding or compound splitting to handle compound terms, and translations mechanisms to translate a query from one language to another. 
      The first workshop on CLIR was held in Zürich during the SIGIR-96 conference. Workshops have been held yearly since 2000 at the meetings of the Cross Language Evaluation Forum (CLEF). Researchers also convene at the annual Text Retrieval Conference (TREC) to discuss their findings regarding different systems and methods of information retrieval, and the conference has served as a point of reference for the CLIR subfield. 
      Google Search had a cross-language search feature that was removed in 2013.  
      See also 
      
       EXCLAIM (EXtensible Cross-Linguistic Automatic Information Machine) 
       CLEF (Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, formerly known as Cross-Language Evaluation Forum) 
       MLIR (Multi-Lingual Information Retrieval)
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ Wang, Jianqiang, and Douglas W. Oard. "Matching meaning for cross-language information retrieval." Information Processing &amp; Management48.4 (2012): 631-53.  
        ^ Thai, Perishan."An Introduction to Cross-Language Information Retrieval Approaches". Web. Web.simmons.edu  
        ^ Oard, Douglas. "Multilingual Information Access." Understanding Information Retrieval Systems(2011): 373-80. Web.  
        ^ Airio, Eija (2008). "Who benefits from CLIR in web retrieval?". Journal of Documentation. 64 (5): 760–778. doi:10.1108/00220410810899754.  
        ^ The proceedings of this workshop can be found in the book Cross-Language Information Retrieval (Grefenstette, ed; Kluwer, 1998) 
          ISBN&nbsp;0-7923-8122-X.  
        ^ Olvera-Lobo, María-Dolores. "Cross-Language Information Retrieval on the Web." Handbook of Research on Social Dimensions of Semantic Technologies and Web Services(n.d.): 704-19. Web.  
        ^ 
          "Google Drops "Translated Foreign Pages" Search Option Due To Lack Of Use". 20 May 2013.  
       
       
      External links 
      
       A resource page for CLIR 
       A search engine for CLIR
       
        
      
      
       
        
         
          
          This computational linguistics-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cross-language_information_retrieval&amp;oldid=1022818134"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information retrieval genres
       Natural language processing
       Computational linguistics stubs
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from September 2014
       All articles needing additional references
       All stub articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Euskara
       Suomi
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 12 May 2021, at 17:26&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
