
 
  
   
  Image retrieval - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Image retrieval 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Information retrieval involving digital images
       
      An image retrieval system is a computer system used for browsing, searching and retrieving images from a large database of digital images. Most traditional and common methods of image retrieval utilize some method of adding metadata such as captioning, keywords, title or descriptions to the images so that retrieval can be performed over the annotation words. Manual image annotation is time-consuming, laborious and expensive; to address this, there has been a large amount of research done on automatic image annotation. Additionally, the increase in social web applications and the semantic web have inspired the development of several web-based image annotation tools. 
      The first microcomputer-based image database retrieval system was developed at MIT, in the 1990s, by Banireddy Prasaad, Amar Gupta, Hoo-min Toong, and Stuart Madnick. 
      A 2008 survey article documented progresses after 2007.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Search methods 
        2 Data scope 
        3 Evaluations 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 External links 
        
       
      Search methods 
      Image search is a specialized data search used to find images. To search for images, a user may provide query terms such as keyword, image file/link, or click on some image, and the system will return images "similar" to the query. The similarity used for search criteria could be meta tags, color distribution in images, region/shape attributes, etc.  
      
       Image meta search - search of images based on associated metadata such as keywords, text, etc. 
       Content-based image retrieval (CBIR)&nbsp;– the application of computer vision to the image retrieval. CBIR aims at avoiding the use of textual descriptions and instead retrieves images based on similarities in their contents (textures, colors, shapes etc.) to a user-supplied query image or user-specified image features. 
        
         List of CBIR Engines - list of engines which search for images based image visual content such as color, texture, shape/object, etc.
        
       
      
       
        
        
         Further information: Visual search engine and Reverse image search
        
       
       
      
       Image collection exploration - search of images based on the use of novel exploration paradigms.
       
      Data scope 
      It is crucial to understand the scope and nature of image data in order to determine the complexity of image search system design. The design is also largely influenced by factors such as the diversity of user-base and expected user traffic for a search system. Along this dimension, search data can be classified into the following categories:  
      
       Archives - usually contain large volumes of structured or semi-structured homogeneous data pertaining to specific topics. 
       Domain-Specific Collection - this is a homogeneous collection providing access to controlled users with very specific objectives. Examples of such a collection are biomedical and satellite image databases. 
       Enterprise Collection - a heterogeneous collection of images that is accessible to users within an organization’s intranet. Pictures may be stored in many different locations. 
       Personal Collection - usually consists of a largely homogeneous collection and is generally small in size, accessible primarily to its owner, and usually stored on a local storage media. 
       Web - World Wide Web images are accessible to everyone with an Internet connection. These image collections are semi-structured, non-homogeneous and massive in volume, and are usually stored in large disk arrays.
       
      Evaluations 
      There are evaluation workshops for image retrieval systems aiming to investigate and improve the performance of such systems.  
      
       ImageCLEF - a continuing track of the Cross Language Evaluation Forum that evaluates systems using both textual and pure-image retrieval methods. 
       Content-based Access of Image and Video Libraries - a series of IEEE workshops from 1998 to 2001.
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Automatic image annotation 
        Computer vision 
        Concept-based image indexing 
        Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) 
        Digital asset management 
        Digital image editing 
        Image organizer 
        Image processing 
        Information retrieval 
        Multimedia information retrieval 
        VisualRank 
        Learning to rank
        
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ B E Prasad; A Gupta; H-M Toong; S.E. Madnick (February 1987). "A microcomputer-based image database management system" (PDF). IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics. IE-34 (1): 83–8. doi:10.1109/TIE.1987.350929.  
        ^ 
          Datta, Ritendra; Dhiraj Joshi; Jia Li; James Z. Wang (April 2008). "Image Retrieval: Ideas, Influences, and Trends of the New Age". ACM Computing Surveys. 40 (2): 1–60. doi:10.1145/1348246.1348248.  
        ^ 
          Camargo, Jorge E.; Caicedo, Juan C.; Gonzalez, Fabio A. (2013). "A kernel-based framework for image collection exploration". Journal of Visual Languages &amp; Computing. 24 (1): 53–57. doi:10.1016/j.jvlc.2012.10.008.  
       
       
      External links 
      
       Image-Net.org
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Internet search
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Web search engine (List) 
             Metasearch engine 
             Multimedia search 
             Collaborative search engine 
             Cross-language search 
             Local search 
             Vertical search 
             Social search 
             Image search 
             Audio search 
             Video search engine 
             Enterprise search 
             Semantic search 
             Natural language search engine 
             Voice search
             
           
         
         
          Tools
          
            
            
             Search by sound 
             Search engine marketing 
             Search engine optimization 
             Evaluation measures 
             Search oriented architecture 
             Selection-based search
             
            
             Document retrieval 
             Text mining 
             Web crawler 
             Multisearch 
             Federated search 
             Search aggregator 
             Index/Web indexing 
             Focused crawler 
             Spider trap 
             Robots exclusion standard 
             Distributed web crawling 
             Web archiving 
             Website mirroring software 
             Web query 
             Web query classification
             
           
         
         
          Protocolsand standards
          
            
            
             Z39.50 
             Search/Retrieve Web Service 
             Search/Retrieve via URL 
             OpenSearch 
             Representational State Transfer 
             Website Parse Template 
             Wide area information server
             
           
         
         
          See also
          
            
            
             Search engine 
             Desktop search 
             Online search
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Image_retrieval&amp;oldid=1070313191"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Image search
       Applications of computer vision
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1: long volume value
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       فارسی
       Magyar
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 6 February 2022, at 20:55&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
