
 
  
   
  Outline of information science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Outline of information science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      The following outline of information science is provided as an overview of and topical guide to information science: 
      Information science – interdisciplinary field primarily concerned with the analysis, collection, classification, manipulation, storage, retrieval and dissemination of information. Practitioners within the field study the application and usage of knowledge in organizations, along with the interaction between people, organizations and any existing information systems, with the aim of creating, replacing, improving or understanding information systems.  
      
      
       
        
        
         Contents
         
         
         1 What type of thing is information science? 
         2 Sub-disciplines of information science 
           
           2.1 Contributing fields 
            
         3 History of information science 
         4 Research methods of information science 
         5 General information science concepts 
         6 Related disciplines 
         7 Information science organizations 
           
           7.1 Related governmental agencies 
           7.2 Educational institutions 
            
         8 Information science awards 
         9 Information science publications 
           
           9.1 Information science journals 
            
         10 Persons influential in information science 
         11 See also 
         12 References 
         13 External links 
         
        
       
      What type of thing is information science? 
      Information science can be described as all of the following:  
      
       An academic discipline – 
       A branch of science – 
        
         An applied science – 
         An action research –
        
       
      Sub-disciplines of information science 
      
       Information technology 
       Informatics 
       Classification 
       Bibliometrics 
       Preservation 
       Cultural studies 
       Categorization 
       Data modeling 
       Memory 
       Computer storage 
       Intellectual property 
       Intellectual freedom 
       Privacy 
       Censorship
       
      Contributing fields 
      As an interdisciplinary field, information science draws upon and incorporates concepts and methodologies from:  
      
       Archival science 
       Cognitive science 
       Commerce 
       Communications 
       Computer science 
       Law 
       Library science 
       Museology 
       Management 
       Mathematics 
       Philosophy 
       Public policy 
       Social sciences
       
      History of information science 
      
       History of information science 
       Documentation science – predecessor of information science. 
       Fathers of information science 
        
         Paul Otlet 
         Henri La Fontaine
         
       Information history 
       International Federation for Information and Documentation 
       History of information representation and retrieval 
        
         Has undergone four phases of development 
          
           Increased Demand (1940s–early 1950s) (Information explosion) 
           Rapid Growth (1950s–1980s) (the emergence of computers and systems such as Dialog (online database)) 
           Demystification Phase (1980s–1990s) (systems developed for end-user searching) 
           The Networked Era (1990s–Present) (search engines such as AltaVista and Google)
          
        
       
      Research methods of information science 
      
       Archival research – facts or factual evidences from a variety of records are compiled. 
       Computational complexity and structure – algorithmic and graphic methods are used to explore the complexity of information systems, retrieval and storage. 
       Content analysis – studies how people communicate by analyzing the contents of books and mass media as well as the messages people talk or write about. 
       Case study – specific set of circumstances or a group (the 'case') is analyzed according to a specific goal of study. Generally, case studies are used to characterize a trend or development; they have weak generalizability. 
       Discourse analysis – analyzing written, oral, and sign language use 
       Historical method – involves a continuous and systematic search for the information and knowledge about past events related to the life of a person, a group, society, or the world. 
       Interviews – researchers obtain data by interviewing people. If the interview is non-structured, the researcher leaves it to the interviewee (also referred to as the respondent or the informant) to guide the conversation. 
       Life history – study of the personal life of a person. Through a series of interviews, the researcher can probe into the decisive moments in their life or the various influences on their life. 
       Longitudinal study – extensive examination of a specific group over a long period of time. 
       Observation – using data from the senses, one records information about a social phenomenon or behavior. Qualitative research relies heavily on observation, although it is in a highly disciplined form. 
       Participant observation – involves researchers going into the field (usually a community), living with the people for some time, and participating in their activities in order to know and feel their culture.
       
      General information science concepts 
      
       Academic publishing (including peer review and open access) 
       Bibliometrics 
       Data modeling 
       Document management and Document Engineering 
       Groupware 
       Human-computer interaction (HCI) 
       Information access 
       Information architecture 
       Information ethics 
       Information literacy 
       Information management 
       Information retrieval (IR) 
       Information seeking 
        
         Information seeking behavior 
          
           Browsing
          
         
       Information society 
       Information systems 
       Intellectual property (IP) 
       Knowledge engineering 
       Knowledge management 
        
         Knowledge transfer
         
       Knowledge organization 
       Memory institutions 
       Ontology 
       Personal information management (PIM) 
       Philosophy of information 
       Scholarly communication 
       Scientific communication 
       Science and technology studies 
       Semantic Web 
       Steganography 
       Usability engineering 
        
         Human factors
         
       User-centered design 
        
         Design philosophy
        
       
      Related disciplines 
      There are many fields which claim to be "sciences" or "disciplines" which are difficult to distinguish from each other and from information science. Some of them are:  
      
       Archival science 
       Communication studies 
       Computer science 
       Documentation science 
       Informatics 
       Information management 
       Information systems research 
       Information literacy 
       Internet studies 
       Knowledge management 
       Library science 
       Media studies 
       Records management 
       Scientometrics
       
      Information science organizations 
      
       American Society for Information Science and Technology 
       Association of Information Technology Professionals (AITP) 
       Society of Information Technology Management (SOCITM), related group based in the UK
       
      Related governmental agencies 
      
       
        
         National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS) 
         Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)
        
       
       
      Educational institutions 
      
       Information school 
        
         List of Information Schools
        
       
      Information science awards 
      
       Claude E. Shannon Award 
       IEEE Reynold B. Johnson Information Storage Systems Award 
       IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal 
       J.W. Graham Medal 
       O'Moore Medal
       
      Information science publications 
      Information science journals 
      
       African Journal of Library, Archives and Information Science 
       Canadian Journal of Information and Library Science 
       Information Research 
       Information Sciences (journal) 
       Information, Communication &amp; Society 
       International Journal of Geographical Information Science 
       Journal of Information Science 
       Journal of Librarianship and Information Science 
       Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology 
       TripleC
       
      Persons influential in information science 
      
       Tim Berners-Lee 
       John Shaw Billings 
       George Boole 
       Suzanne Briet 
       Michael Buckland 
       Vannevar Bush 
       Melville Dewey 
       Luciano Floridi 
       Henri La Fontaine 
       Eugene Garfield 
       Frederick Kilgour 
       Frederick Wilfrid Lancaster 
       Gottfried Leibniz 
       Alexander Ivanovich Mikhailov 
       S. R. Ranganathan 
       Seymour Lubetzky 
       Wilhelm Ostwald 
       Paul Otlet 
       Gerald Salton 
       Jesse Shera 
       Warren Weaver
       
      See also 
      
       Information and Computer Science 
       Information history 
       Informative modelling 
       International Federation for Information Processing – Global body for informatics. 
       Internet search engines and libraries 
       Library and information science 
       Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Merriam-Webster and American Heritage Dictionary.  
         ^ Chu, Heting (2010).’’ Information Representation and Retrieval in the Digital Age’’, Second Edition. Medford, NJ: Information Today  
        
       
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        Information scienceat Wikipedia's sister projects
       
       
        Definitions from Wiktionary
        Media from Commons
        News from Wikinews
        Quotations from Wikiquote
        Texts from Wikisource
        Textbooks from Wikibooks
        Resources from Wikiversity
       
       
      
       Knowledge Map of Information Science 
       Journal of Information Science 
       Digital Library of Information Science and Technology open access archive for the Information Sciences 
       Current Information Science Research at U.S. Geological Survey 
       Introduction to Information Science 
       The Nitecki Trilogy 
       Information science at the University of California at Berkeley in the 1960s: a memoir of student days 
       Chronology of Information Science and Technology 
       LIBRES - Library and Information Science Research Electronic Journal - Curtin University of Technology, Perth, Western Australia
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Wikipedia Outlines
           
         
         
          
           
            General reference 
            
             Culture and the arts 
             Geography and places 
             Health and fitness 
             History and events 
             Mathematics and logic 
             Natural and physical sciences 
             People and self 
             Philosophy and thinking 
             Religion and belief systems 
             Society and social sciences 
             Technology and applied sciences
            
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Outline_of_information_science&amp;oldid=1050508812"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Outlines of sciences
       Wikipedia outlines
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Pages using Sister project links with default search
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 October 2021, at 07:42&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
