
 
  
   
  Music information retrieval - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Music information retrieval 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article may be too technical for most readers to understand. Please help improve it to make it understandable to non-experts, without removing the technical details. (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Music information retrieval"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (May 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (May 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Music information retrieval (MIR) is the interdisciplinary science of retrieving information from music. MIR is a small but growing field of research with many real-world applications. Those involved in MIR may have a background in musicology, psychoacoustics, psychology, academic music study, signal processing, informatics, machine learning, optical music recognition, computational intelligence or some combination of these.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Applications 
          
          1.1 Music classification 
          1.2 Recommender systems 
          1.3 Music source separation and instrument recognition 
          1.4 Automatic music transcription 
          1.5 Music generation 
           
        2 Methods used 
          
          2.1 Data source 
          2.2 Feature representation 
          2.3 Statistics and machine learning 
           
        3 Other issues 
        4 Academic activity 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
          
          7.1 Example MIR applications 
           
        
       
      Applications 
      MIR is being used by businesses and academics to categorize, manipulate and even create music.  
      Music classification 
      One of the classical MIR research topic is genre classification, which is categorizing music items into one of pre-defined genres such as classical, jazz, rock, etc. Mood classification, artist classification, instrument identification, and music tagging are also popular topics.  
      Recommender systems 
      Several recommender systems for music already exist, but surprisingly few are based upon MIR techniques, instead making use of similarity between users or laborious data compilation. Pandora, for example, uses experts to tag the music with particular qualities such as "female singer" or "strong bassline". Many other systems find users whose listening history is similar and suggests unheard music to the users from their respective collections. MIR techniques for similarity in music are now beginning to form part of such systems.  
      Music source separation and instrument recognition 
      Music source separation is about separating original signals from a mixture audio signal. Instrument recognition is about identifying the instruments involved in music. Various MIR systems have been developed that can separate music into its component tracks without access to the master copy. In this way e.g. karaoke tracks can be created from normal music tracks, though the process is not yet perfect owing to vocals occupying some of the same frequency space as the other instruments.  
      Automatic music transcription 
      Automatic music transcription is the process of converting an audio recording into symbolic notation, such as a score or a MIDI file. This process involves several audio analysis tasks, which may include multi-pitch detection, onset detection, duration estimation, instrument identification, and the extraction of harmonic, rhythmic or melodic information. This task becomes more difficult with greater numbers of instruments and a greater polyphony level.  
      Music generation 
      The automatic generation of music is a goal held by many MIR researchers. Attempts have been made with limited success in terms of human appreciation of the results.  
      Methods used 
      Data source 
      Scores give a clear and logical description of music from which to work, but access to sheet music, whether digital or otherwise, is often impractical. MIDI music has also been used for similar reasons, but some data is lost in the conversion to MIDI from any other format, unless the music was written with the MIDI standards in mind, which is rare. Digital audio formats such as WAV, mp3, and ogg are used when the audio itself is part of the analysis. Lossy formats such as mp3 and ogg work well with the human ear but may be missing crucial data for study. Additionally some encodings create artifacts which could be misleading to any automatic analyser. Despite this the ubiquity of the mp3 has meant much research in the field involves these as the source material. Increasingly, metadata mined from the web is incorporated in MIR for a more rounded understanding of the music within its cultural context, and this recently consists of analysis of social tags for music.  
      Feature representation 
      Analysis can often require some summarising, and for music (as with many other forms of data) this is achieved by feature extraction, especially when the audio content itself is analysed and machine learning is to be applied. The purpose is to reduce the sheer quantity of data down to a manageable set of values so that learning can be performed within a reasonable time-frame. One common feature extracted is the Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficient (MFCC) which is a measure of the timbre of a piece of music. Other features may be employed to represent the key, chords, harmonies, melody, main pitch, beats per minute or rhythm in the piece. There are a number of available audio feature extraction tools Available here  
      Statistics and machine learning 
      
       Computational methods for classification, clustering, and modelling — musical feature extraction for mono- and polyphonic music, similarity and pattern matching, retrieval 
       Formal methods and databases — applications of automated music identification and recognition, such as score following, automatic accompaniment, routing and filtering for music and music queries, query languages, standards and other metadata or protocols for music information handling and retrieval, multi-agent systems, distributed search) 
       Software for music information retrieval — Semantic Web and musical digital objects, intelligent agents, collaborative software, web-based search and semantic retrieval, query by humming / Search by sound, acoustic fingerprinting 
       Music analysis and knowledge representation — automatic summarization, citing, excerpting, downgrading, transformation, formal models of music, digital scores and representations, music indexing and metadata.
       
      Other issues 
      
       Human-computer interaction and interfaces — multi-modal interfaces, user interfaces and usability, mobile applications, user behavior 
       Music perception, cognition, affect, and emotions — music similarity metrics, syntactical parameters, semantic parameters, musical forms, structures, styles and music annotation methodologies 
       Music archives, libraries, and digital collections — music digital libraries, public access to musical archives, benchmarks and research databases 
       Intellectual property rights and music — national and international copyright issues, digital rights management, identification and traceability 
       Sociology and Economy of music — music industry and use of MIR in the production, distribution, consumption chain, user profiling, validation, user needs and expectations, evaluation of music IR systems, building test collections, experimental design and metrics
       
      Academic activity 
      
       International Society for Music Information Retrieval (ISMIR) conference is the top-tier venue for music information retrieval research. 
       International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP) is also a highly relevant venue.
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Audio search engine 
        Audio mining 
        Digital rights management 
        Digital signal processing 
        Ethnomusicology 
        List of music software 
        Multimedia information retrieval 
        Automatic content recognition 
        Music notation 
        Musicology 
        Optical music recognition 
        Parsons code 
        Sound and music computing
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ A. Klapuri and M. Davy, editors. Signal Processing Methods for Music Transcription. Springer-Verlag, New York, 2006.  
         ^ Eidenberger, Horst (2011). “Fundamental Media Understanding”, atpress. ISBN&nbsp;978-3-8423-7917-6.  
         ^ David Moffat, David Ronan, and Joshua D Reiss. "An Evaluation of Audio Feature Extraction Toolboxes". In Proceedings of the International Conference on Digital Audio Effects (DAFx), 2016.  
        
       
       
      
       Michael Fingerhut (2004). "Music Information Retrieval, or how to search for (and maybe find) music and do away with incipits", IAML-IASA Congress, Oslo (Norway), August 8–13, 2004.
       
      External links 
      
       International Society for Music Information Retrieval 
       Music Information Retrieval research 
       J. Stephen Downie: Music information retrieval 
       M. Schedl, E. Gómez and J. Urbano: Music Information Retrieval: Recent Developments and Applications 
       Nicola Orio: Music Retrieval: A Tutorial and Review 
       Intelligent Audio Systems: Foundations and Applications of Music Information Retrieval, introductory course at Stanford University's Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics 
       Micheline Lesaffre: Music Information Retrieval: Conceptual Framework, Annotation and User behavior. 
       The Echo Nest: a company specialising in MIR research and applications. 
       Imagine Research&nbsp;: develops platform and software for MIR applications  
       AudioContentAnalysis.org: MIR resources and matlab code  
       Minz Won, Janne Spijkervet, and Keunwoo Choi: Tutorial - Music classification: Beyond Supervised Learning, Towards Real-world Applications
       
      Example MIR applications 
      
       Musipedia — A melody search engine that offers several modes of searching, including whistling, tapping, piano keyboard, and Parsons code. 
       Peachnote — A melody search engine and n-gram viewer that searches through digitized music scores
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Music_information_retrieval&amp;oldid=1067946434"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Music information retrieval
       Music software
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Wikipedia articles that are too technical from October 2012
       All articles that are too technical
       Articles needing additional references from May 2021
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles that may contain original research from May 2021
       All articles that may contain original research
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       Hrvatski
       Suomi
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 January 2022, at 23:46&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
