
 
  
   
  Royal School of Library and Information Science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Royal School of Library and Information Science 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from The Royal School of Library and Information Science)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Ella.Com
       
      
      
       
        Royal School of Library and Information Science
       
       
        
         
          
           Det Informationsvidenskabelige Akademi
          
        
        
         Type
         Information school
        
        
         
          
           Parent institution
          
         University of Copenhagen
        
        
         Director
         Jens-Erik Mai
        
        
         Students
         800
        
        
         Location
         
          
           Copenhagen
          , 
          
           Denmark 
          
        
        
         Website
         iva.ku.dk/english/
        
       
       
      The Royal School of Library and Information Science (abbr. RSLIS, Danish: Det Informationsvidenskabelige Akademi) is a school under the University of Copenhagen that provides higher education in the field of library and information science. It has now merged with another department to Department of Communication. It is based in Copenhagen, Denmark. It is a member of iSchools, a consortium directed to understanding the role of information in nature and human culture. There has also been a location in Aalborg, however this campus was shut down in the summer of 2017.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Locations 
        3 Academic programmes 
        4 Research 
        5 Cooperative agreements with other universities and colleges 
        6 References 
        7 External links 
        
       
      History 
      The school was an independent institution from 1956 to 2013. It was founded in 1956 and replaced the Danish State Library School that had been established in 1918. In 1973, RSLIS set up a library school branch in Aalborg. Up to 1969 RSLIS offered a sandwich course leading solely to the qualification of public librarian. Those graduating with the Diploma in public librarianship would take up positions as librarians in public libraries (Section I). In 1969, RSLIS extended its course offerings to include a specialised diploma programme directed towards national, research and academic libraries (within the framework of Section II). In 1985, the two librarianship programmes were merged into a joint library degree programme. In 1998, the school was granted university status. In 2004 the first PhD thesis in Library and Information Science was defended and in 2006 the first doctoral degree was awarded. In 2010, the institution changed its name from Danmarks Biblioteksskole to Det Informationsvidenskabelige Akademi (In English still "Royal School of Library and Information Science"). On April 1, 2013, the RSLIS was merged with the University of Copenhagen. December 1, 2017 it changed name to Department of Information Studies, and on September 1, 2019 it merged with the Department of Media, Cognition and Communication into Department of Communication, University of Copenhagen.  
      Locations 
      RSLIS is located in Copenhagen, South Campus of University of Copenhagen. There was until the summer of 2017 a satellite department in Aalborg. In Aalborg, the RSLIS location was in the University of Aalborg campus area.  
      Academic programmes 
      The school offers an undergraduate Bachelor of Library and Information Science, a so-called Librarian IVA qualification, a 2-year Master of Library and Information Science (M.L.I.Sc. degree) along with a PhD degree programme. Also offered are a range of specialised courses including a one-year, post-professional Master of Library and Information Science degree, diploma courses as well as continuing education options including short courses and theme-days. 
      In 2008, the contents of the 3-year Bachelor of Library and Information Science course was revised with the focus being placed at knowledge design and knowledge media. Students are offered course units and seminar options covering, among other things, media theories, forms of knowledge, information architecture, information seeking and retrieval, communication, knowledge management and user behaviour. 
      The two-year Master of Library and Information Science degree programme was also revised in 2008, providing students with new possibilities of taking options covering constituting as well as free modules. The constituting modules are rooted in the school's six research programmes with the free modules to a greater extent being offered in relation to specific research fields and having the nature of scientific workshop. Students are also offered the possibility of toning their individual programmes in the context of the Masters programme.  
      Research 
      Research at the Royal School of Library and Information Science is organised in six research programmes:  
      
       Libraries and Innovative Processes 
       Research and Research Policy 
       Information Systems and Interaction Design 
       Information Literacy and Practice 
       Cultural Mediation 
       Knowledge and Information Theory
       
      Cooperative agreements with other universities and colleges 
      
       Cooperation agreement with Department of Communication at Aalborg University in 2008. 
       Cooperation agreement with Faculty of Social Sciences at Aalborg University. 
       Cooperation agreement with Department of Scandinavian Studies and Linguistics at University of Copenhagen in 2009. 
       Cooperation agreement with School of Information Management at Wuhan University in 2009.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ https://comm.ku.dk/staff/?pure=en/persons/451978  
        ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-06-25. Retrieved 2016-02-10.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ For a complete list of research fields covered by RSLIS scholars and researchers, visit   
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". iva.dk. Archived from the original on 24 November 2010. Retrieved 13 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". www.iva.dk. Archived from the original on 10 April 2011. Retrieved 13 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". iva.dk. Archived from the original on 24 November 2010. Retrieved 13 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". www.iva.dk. Archived from the original on 10 April 2011. Retrieved 13 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-07-27. Retrieved 2015-01-16.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-10-17. Retrieved 2015-01-16.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-07-27. Retrieved 2015-01-16.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-10-17. Retrieved 2015-07-18.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
       
       
      External links 
      
       Official website
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            University of Copenhagen
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Academics
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Faculties
                  
                    
                    
                     Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences 
                     Faculty of Humanities 
                     Faculty of Law 
                     Faculty of Science 
                     Faculty of Social Sciences 
                     Faculty of Theology
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Centres anddepartments
                  
                    
                    
                     Bioinformatics Centre 
                     Department of Biology 
                     Department of Chemistry 
                     Department of Computer Science 
                     Department of Mathematical Sciences 
                     Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports 
                     Nano-Science Center 
                     Center for the Philosophy of Nature and Science Studies 
                     Center for Planetary Research 
                     Center for Protein Research 
                     Søren Kierkegaard Research Center 
                     Cosmic Dawn Center
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Institutes andlaboratories
                  
                    
                    
                     Arnamagnæan Institute 
                     Hans Christian Ørsted Institute 
                     Niels Bohr Institute 
                     University of Copenhagen Arctic Station 
                     Urban Culture Lab
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Schools
                  
                    
                    
                     Royal School of Library and Information Science 
                     School of Pharmaceutical Sciences 
                     School of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Other
                  
                    
                    
                     Copenhagen–Tartu school 
                     TOPPS 
                     Master of International Health 
                     Museum Tusculanum Press
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                University
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Campuses
                  
                    
                    
                     City Campus 
                     Frederiksberg Campus 
                     North Campus 
                     South Campus
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Historical dormitories
                  
                    
                    
                     Borchs Kollegium 
                     Elers' Kollegium 
                     Hassagers Kollegium 
                     Regensen 
                     Valkendorfs Kollegium
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Museums
                  
                    
                    
                     Natural History Museum of Denmark 
                     University of Copenhagen Botanical Garden 
                     University of Copenhagen Geological Museum 
                     University of Copenhagen Zoological Museum 
                     Medical Museion
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
        
       
       
      Coordinates: 55°39′22.47″N 12°35′55.63″E﻿ / ﻿55.6562417°N 12.5987861°E﻿ / 55.6562417; 12.5987861  
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Royal_School_of_Library_and_Information_Science&amp;oldid=1065520643"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       University of Copenhagen
       Universities in Denmark
       Education in Copenhagen
       Educational institutions established in 1956
       Information schools
       Library-related organizations
       1956 establishments in Denmark
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description with empty Wikidata description
       Articles using infobox university
       Articles containing Danish-language text
       Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
       Coordinates on Wikidata
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Dansk
       Norsk bokmål
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 14 January 2022, at 00:14&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
