
 
  
   
  Information school - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information school 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from I-school)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      An information school (sometimes abbreviated I-school or iSchool) is a university-level institution committed to understanding the role of information in nature and human endeavors. Synonyms include school of information, department of information studies, or information department. Information schools faculty conduct research into the fundamental aspects of information and related technologies. In addition to granting academic degrees, information schools educate information professionals, researchers, and scholars for an increasingly information-driven world. 
      Information school can also refer, in a more restricted sense, to the members of the iSchools organization (formerly the "iSchools Project"), as governed by the iCaucus. Members of this group share a fundamental interest in the relationships between people, information, technology, and science. These schools, colleges, and departments have been either newly established or have evolved from programs focused on information systems, library science, informatics, computer science, library and information science and information science. 
      Information schools promote an interdisciplinary approach to understanding the opportunities and challenges of information management, with a core commitment to concepts like universal access and user-centered organization of information. The field is concerned broadly with questions of design and preservation across information spaces, from digital and virtual spaces like online communities, the World Wide Web, and databases to physical spaces such as libraries, museums, archives, and other repositories. Information school degree programs include course offerings in areas such as information architecture, design, economics, policy, retrieval, security, and telecommunications; knowledge management, user experience design, and usability; conservation and preservation, including digital preservation; librarianship and library administration; the sociology of information; and human–computer interaction.  
      See also 
      
       Education for librarianship 
       Information age 
       List of information schools 
       Outline of information science 
       Outline of library science 
       Systems science
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ About the iCaucus, governing body of the iSchools Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine  
         ^ The iSchools Welcome Nanjing and Tampere as New Additions; Now Boast 33 Members Worldwide Archived 2011-12-04 at the Wayback Machine  
        
       
       
      Bibliography 
      
       Cronin, B. (2005). An I-dentity crisis? The information schools movement. International Journal of Information Management, 25: 363–365. 
       Debons, A. &amp; Harmon, G. (2006) The I-Conference in Retrospect. Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, April/May. 
       Larsen, R. (2005). An interview with Ron Larsen about I-schools. Coalition for Networked Information, 27-minute audio recording.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_school&amp;oldid=953074123"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library science education
       Information science
       Information schools
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 April 2020, at 15:58&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
