
 
  
   
  Library classification - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Library classification 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Systems of coding and organizing documents or library materials
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A library book shelf in Hong Kong arranged using the Dewey classification
        
       
       
      A library classification is a system of knowledge organization by which library resources are arranged and ordered systematically. Library classifications a notational system that represents the order of topics in the classification and allows items to be stored in that order. Library classification systems group related materials together, typically arranged as a hierarchical tree structure. A different kind of classification system, called a faceted classification system, is also widely used, which allows the assignment of multiple classifications to an object, enabling the classifications to be ordered in many ways.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Description 
        2 History 
        3 Types 
        4 Methods or systems 
          
          4.1 English language universal classification systems 
          4.2 Non-English universal classification systems 
          4.3 Universal classification systems that rely on synthesis (faceted systems) 
           
        5 The practice of classifying 
        6 Comparing Library classification systems 
        7 See also 
        8 Notes 
        9 References 
        
       
      Description 
      Library classification is an aspect of library and information science. It is distinct from scientific classification in that it has as its goal to provide a useful ordering of documents rather than a theoretical organization of knowledge. Although it has the practical purpose of creating a physical ordering of documents, it does generally attempt to adhere to accepted scientific knowledge. Library Classification helps to accommodate all the newly published literature in an already created order of arrangement in a filiatory sequence. 
      Library classification can be defined as the arrangement of books on shelves, or description of them, in the manner which is most useful to those who read with the ultimate aim of grouping similar things together. Library classification is meant to achieve these four purposes like ordering the fields of knowledge in a systematic way, bring related items together in the most helpful sequence, provide orderly access on the shelve, and provide a location for an item on the shelf. 
      Library classification is distinct from the application of subject headings in that classification organizes knowledge into a systematic order, while subject headings provide access to intellectual materials through vocabulary terms that may or may not be organized as a knowledge system. The characteristics that a bibliographic classification demands for the sake of reaching these purposes are: a useful sequence of subjects at all levels, a concise memorable notation, and a host of techniques and devices of number synthesis  
      History 
      Library classifications were preceded by classifications used by bibliographers such as Conrad Gessner. The earliest library classification schemes organized books in broad subject categories. The earliest known library classification scheme is the Pinakes by Callimachus, a scholar at the Library of Alexandria during the third century BC. During the Renaissance and Reformation era, "Libraries were organized according to the whims or knowledge of individuals in charge." This changed the format in which various materials were classified. Some collections were classified by language and others by how they were printed. 
      After the printing revolution in the sixteenth century, the increase in available printed materials made such broad classification unworkable, and more granular classifications for library materials had to be developed in the nineteenth century. 
      In 1627 Gabriel Naudé published a book called Advice on Establishing a Library. At the time, he was working in the private library of President Henri de Mesmes II. Mesmes had around 8,000 printed books and many more Greek, Latin and French written manuscripts. Although it was a private library, scholars with references could access it. The purpose of Advice on Establishing a Library was to identify rules for private book collectors to organize their collections in a more orderly way to increase the collection's usefulness and beauty. Naudé developed a classification system based on seven different classes: theology, medicine, jurisprudence, history, philosophy, mathematics and the humanities. These seven classes would later be increased to twelve. Advice on Establishing a Library was about a private library, but within the same book, Naudé encouraged the idea of public libraries open to all people regardless of their ability to pay for access to the collection. One of the most famous libraries that Naudé helped improve was the Bibliothèque Mazarine in Paris. Naudé spent ten years there as a librarian. Because of Naudé's strong belief in free access to libraries to all people, the Bibliothèque Mazarine became the first public library in France around 1644. 
      Although libraries created order within their collections from as early as the fifth century BC, the Paris Bookseller's classification, developed in 1842 by Jacques Charles Brunet, is generally seen as the first of the modern book classifications. Brunet provided five major classes: theology, jurisprudence, sciences and arts, belles-lettres, and history. Classification can now be seen as a provider of subject access to information in a networked environment.  
      Types 
      There are many standard systems of library classification in use, and many more have been proposed over the years. However, in general, classification systems can be divided into three types depending on how they are used:  
      
       
        Universal schemes
        
       
        Covers all subjects, e.g. the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC), Universal Decimal Classification (UDC), Library of Congress Classification (LCC), and Colon Classification (CC).
        
       
        Specific classification schemes
        
       
        Covers particular subjects or types of materials, e.g. Iconclass (art), British Catalogue of Music Classification, and Dickinson classification (music), or the NLM Classification (medicine).
        
       
        National schemes
        
       
        Specially created for certain countries, e.g. the Swedish library classification system, SAB (Sveriges Allmänna Biblioteksförening).
       
       
      In terms of functionality, classification systems are often described as:  
      
       
        Enumerative
        
       
        Subject headings are listed alphabetically, with numbers assigned to each heading in alphabetical order.
        
       
        Hierarchical
        
       
        Subjects are divided hierarchically, from most general to most specific.
        
       
        Faceted/analytico-synthetic
        
       
        Subjects are divided into mutually exclusive orthogonal facets.
       
       
      There are few completely enumerative systems or faceted systems; most systems are a blend but favouring one type or the other. The most common classification systems, LCC and DDC, are essentially enumerative, though with some hierarchical and faceted elements (more so for DDC), especially at the broadest and most general level. The first true faceted system was the colon classification of S. R. Ranganathan.  
      Methods or systems 
      Classification types denote the classification or categorization according to the form or characteristics or qualities of a classification scheme or schemes. Method and system has similar meaning. Method or methods or system means the classification schemes like Dewey Decimal Classification or Universal Decimal Classification. The types of classification is for identifying and understanding or education or research purposes while classification method means those classification schemes like DDC, UDC.  
      English language universal classification systems 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Moys Classification Scheme as used by the law library of the Hong Kong High Court
        
       
       
      The most common systems in English-speaking countries are:  
      
       Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) 
       Library of Congress Classification (LCC) 
       Colon classification (CC) 
       Universal Decimal Classification (UDC)
       
      Other systems include:  
      
       Moys Classification Scheme, used in law libraries in many common law jurisdictions such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. 
       Harvard-Yenching Classification, an English classification system for Chinese language materials 
       Vartavan Library Classification 
       London Education Classification devised by D.J. Foskett and Joy Foskett and used at the UCL Institute of Education 
       Garside classification used in most libraries of University College London 
       Bliss bibliographic classification used in some British libraries 
       Gladstone Library Classification, devised by W.E. Gladstone and used exclusively at Gladstone's Library
       
      Non-English universal classification systems 
      
       German Regensburger Verbundklassifikation (RVK) 
       A system of book classification for Chinese libraries (Liu's Classification) library classification for user 
        
         New Classification Scheme for Chinese Libraries
         
       Nippon Decimal Classification (NDC) 
       Chinese Library Classification (CLC) 
       Korean Decimal Classification (KDC) 
       Russian Library-Bibliographical Classification (BBK)
       
      Universal classification systems that rely on synthesis (faceted systems) 
      
       Bliss bibliographic classification 
       Colon classification 
       Cutter Expansive Classification 
       Universal Decimal Classification
       
      Newer classification systems tend to use the principle of synthesis (combining codes from different lists to represent the different attributes of a work) heavily, which is comparatively lacking in LC or DDC.  
      The practice of classifying 
      Library classification is associated with library (descriptive) cataloging under the rubric of cataloging and classification, sometimes grouped together as technical services. The library professional who engages in the process of cataloging and classifying library materials is called a cataloger or catalog librarian. Library classification systems are one of the two tools used to facilitate subject access. The other consists of alphabetical indexing languages such as Thesauri and Subject Headings systems. 
      Library classification of a piece of work consists of two steps. Firstly, the subject or topic of the material is ascertained. Next, a call number (essentially a book's address) based on the classification system in use at the particular library will be assigned to the work using the notation of the system. 
      It is important to note that unlike subject heading or thesauri where multiple terms can be assigned to the same work, in library classification systems, each work can only be placed in one class. This is due to shelving purposes: A book can have only one physical place. However, in classified catalogs one may have main entries as well as added entries. Most classification systems like the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) and Library of Congress Classification also add a cutter number to each work which adds a code for the main entry (primary access point) of the work (e.g. author). 
      Classification systems in libraries generally play two roles. Firstly, they facilitate subject access by allowing the user to find out what works or documents the library has on a certain subject. Secondly, they provide a known location for the information source to be located (e.g. where it is shelved). 
      Until the 19th century, most libraries had closed stacks, so the library classification only served to organize the subject catalog. In the 20th century, libraries opened their stacks to the public and started to shelve library material itself according to some library classification to simplify subject browsing. 
      Some classification systems are more suitable for aiding subject access, rather than for shelf location. For example, Universal Decimal Classification, which uses a complicated notation of pluses and colons, is more difficult to use for the purpose of shelf arrangement but is more expressive compared to DDC in terms of showing relationships between subjects. Similarly faceted classification schemes are more difficult to use for shelf arrangement, unless the user has knowledge of the citation order. 
      Depending on the size of the library collection, some libraries might use classification systems solely for one purpose or the other. In extreme cases, a public library with a small collection might just use a classification system for location of resources but might not use a complicated subject classification system. Instead all resources might just be put into a couple of wide classes (travel, crime, magazines etc.). This is known as a "mark and park" classification method, more formally called reader interest classification.  
      Comparing Library classification systems 
      As a result of differences in notation, history, use of enumeration, hierarchy, and facets, classification systems can differ in the following ways:  
      
       Type of Notation: Notation can be pure (consisting of only numerals, for example) or mixed (consisting of letters and numerals, or letters, numerals, and other symbols). 
       Expressiveness: This is the degree to which the notation can express relationship between concepts or structure. 
       Whether they support mnemonics: For example, the number 44 in DDC notation often means it concerns some aspect of France. For example, in the Dewey classification 598.0944 concerns "Birds in France", the 09 signifies geographic division, and 44 represents France. 
       Hospitality: The degree to which the system is able to accommodate new subjects. 
       Brevity: The length of the notation to express the same concept. 
       Speed of updates and degree of support: The better classification systems are frequently being reviewed. 
       Consistency 
       Simplicity 
       Usability
       
      See also 
      
       Attribute-value system 
       Categorization 
       Classification (general theory) 
       Decimal classification 
       Document classification 
       Information retrieval 
       Knowledge organization 
       Library management 
       Library of Congress Subject Headings 
       W. C. Berwick Sayers 
       Subject indexing
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Publius, Vergilius Maro (1900). P. Virgilii Maronis Opera. OCLC&nbsp;475463360.  
         ^ 
           Bhattacharya, Ganesh; Ranganathan, S R (1974), Wojciechowski, Jerzy A. (ed.), From knowledge classification to library classification, Ottawa Conference on the Conceptual Basis of the Classification of Knowledge, 1971, Munich: Verlag Dokumentation, pp.&nbsp;119–143  
         ^ 
           Bliss, Henry Evelyn (1933). The organization of knowledge in libraries. New York: H. W. Wilson.  
         ^ 
           Pandita, Ramesh; Singh, Shivendra (November 2012). "NEED AND IMPORTANCE OF LIBRARY CLASSIFICATION IN ICT ERA". Journal of Indian Library Association. 48 (4): 25–30. Retrieved 2021-01-18.  
         ^ 
           Mlinar, Courtney (September 1, 2021). "Library Classification System: What is the Library Classification System?". Austin Community College. Retrieved October 18, 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Lois Mai Chan (September 28, 2007), Cataloging and classification (Cataloging and Classification&nbsp;ed.), The Scarecrow Press, ISBN&nbsp;9780810859449, 0810859440  
         ^ 
           Satija, M P (2015). "Features, Functions and Components of a Library Classification System in the LIS tradition for the e-Environment". Information Science Theory and Practice. 3 (4): 62–77. doi:10.1633/JISTaP.2015.3.4.5.  
         ^ 
           Murray, Stuart (2009). The library&nbsp;: an illustrated history. New York, NY: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN&nbsp;9781602397064. OCLC&nbsp;277203534.  
         ^ a b 
           Shera, Jesse H (1965). Libraries and the organization of knowledge. Hamden, Conn.: Archon Books.  
         ^ 
           Clarke, Jack A. (1969). "Gabriel Naudé and the Foundations of the Scholarly Library". The Library Quarterly. 39 (4): 331–343. doi:10.1086/619792. ISSN&nbsp;0024-2519. JSTOR&nbsp;4306024. S2CID&nbsp;144274371.  
         ^ 
           Boitano, John F. (1996-01-01). "Naudé's Advis Pour Dresser Une Bibliothèque: A Window into the Past". Seventeenth-Century French Studies. 18 (1): 5–19. doi:10.1179/026510696793658584. ISSN&nbsp;0265-1068.  
         ^ 
           Sayers, Berwick (1918). An introduction to library classification. New York: H. W. Wilson.  
         ^ 
           Matveyeva, Susan (2002-06-14). "A Role for Classification: The Organization of Resources on the Internet". MLA Forum. 1 (2).  
         ^ 
           "IALS Library". Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. Retrieved 5 June 2015.  
         ^ 
           "V-LIB". Projectis. Retrieved 23 November 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Garside classification scheme | Library Services - UCL – University College London". 8 August 2018.  
         ^ 
           "Gladstone Foundation Collection". Gladstone's Library. Retrieved 2022-01-18.  
         ^ 
           "Subject access points". iva.dk. Archived from the original on 2011-05-31. Retrieved 2011-02-16.  
         ^ Lynch, Sarah N., and Eugene Mulero. "Dewey? At This Library With a Very Different Outlook, They Don't" The New York Times, July 14, 2007.  
        
       
       
      References 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Library classification.
         
       
       
      
       
        Chan, L. M. (1994). Cataloging and Classification: An Introduction. New York: McGraw-Hill. ISBN&nbsp;9780070105065.
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Computable knowledge
           
         
         
          Topics andconcepts
          
            
            
             Alphabet of human thought 
             Authority control 
             Automated reasoning 
             Commonsense knowledge 
             Commonsense reasoning 
             Computability 
             Discovery system 
             Formal system 
             Inference engine 
             Knowledge base 
              
               Personal knowledge base
               
             Knowledge-based systems 
             Knowledge engineering 
             Knowledge extraction 
             Knowledge graph 
             Knowledge representation 
             Knowledge retrieval 
             Library classification 
             Logic programming 
             Ontology 
             Question answering 
             Semantic reasoner
             
           
         
         
          Proposals andimplementations
          
            
            
             Zairja 
             Ars Magna&nbsp;(1300) 
             An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language&nbsp;(1688) 
             Calculus ratiocinator and characteristica universalis&nbsp;(1700) 
             Dewey Decimal Classification&nbsp;(1876) 
             Begriffsschrift&nbsp;(1879) 
             Mundaneum&nbsp;(1910) 
             Logical atomism&nbsp;(1918) 
             Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus&nbsp;(1921) 
             Hilbert's program&nbsp;(1920s) 
             Incompleteness theorem&nbsp;(1931) 
             World Brain&nbsp;(1938) 
             Memex&nbsp;(1945) 
             General Problem Solver&nbsp;(1959) 
             Prolog&nbsp;(1972) 
             Cyc&nbsp;(1984) 
             Semantic Web&nbsp;(2001) 
             Wikipedia&nbsp;(2001) 
             Evi&nbsp;(2007) 
             Wolfram Alpha&nbsp;(2009) 
             Watson&nbsp;(2011) 
             Siri&nbsp;(2011) 
             Google Knowledge Graph&nbsp;(2012) 
             Wikidata&nbsp;(2012) 
             Cortana&nbsp;(2014) 
             Viv&nbsp;(2016)
             
           
         
         
          In fiction
          
            
            
             The Engine (Gulliver's Travels, 1726) 
             Joe ("A Logic Named Joe", 1946) 
             The Librarian (Snow Crash, 1992) 
             Dr. Know (A.I. (film), 2001) 
             Waterhouse (The Baroque Cycle, 2003)
             
            See also: Logic machines in fiction and List of fictional computers  
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Library classification systems
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Bliss (BC) 
             Brian Deer 
             Chinese Library (CLC/CCL) 
             Colon (CC) 
             Cutter Expansive 
             Dewey Decimal (DDC) 
             Harvard–Yenching 
             Korean decimal (KDC) 
             Library of Congress (LCC) 
             New Classification Scheme for Chinese Libraries 
             Nippon Decimal (NDC) 
             Russian Library-Bibliographical Classification (BBK) 
             Swedish library system (SAB) 
             Universal Decimal (UDC)
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
              
               See also: Knowledge organization
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library_classification&amp;oldid=1068994493"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library cataloging and classification
       Knowledge representation
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Jawa
       ಕನ್ನಡ
       Latina
       മലയാളം
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       සිංහල
       Simple English
       Slovenščina
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Українська
       اردو
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 January 2022, at 04:46&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
