
 
  
   
  Bibliographic database - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Bibliographic database 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Database providing an authoritative source of bibliographic information
       
      
      
       For computer programs to manage an individual's bibliographic references, see Reference management software
       
      A bibliographic database is a database of bibliographic records, an organized digital collection of references to published literature, including journal and newspaper articles, conference proceedings, reports, government and legal publications, patents, books, etc. In contrast to library catalogue entries, a large proportion of the bibliographic records in bibliographic databases describe articles, conference papers, etc., rather than complete monographs, and they generally contain very rich subject descriptions in the form of keywords, subject classification terms, or abstracts. 
      A bibliographic database may be general in scope or cover a specific academic discipline like computer science. A significant number of bibliographic databases are proprietary, available by licensing agreement from vendors, or directly from the indexing and abstracting services that create them. 
      Many bibliographic databases have evolved into digital libraries, providing the full text of the indexed contents: for instance CORE also mirrors and indexes the full text of scholarly articles and Our Research develops a search engine for open access content found by Unpaywall. Others converge with non-bibliographic scholarly databases to create more complete disciplinary search engine systems, such as Chemical Abstracts or Entrez.  
      History 
      Prior to the mid-20th century, individuals searching for published literature had to rely on printed bibliographic indexes, generated manually from index cards. "During the early 1960s computers were used to digitize text for the first time; the purpose was to reduce the cost and time required to publish two American abstracting journals, the Index Medicus of the National Library of Medicine and the Scientific and Technical Aerospace Reports of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). By the late 1960s such bodies of digitized alphanumeric information, known as bibliographic and numeric databases, constituted a new type of information resource. Online interactive retrieval became commercially viable in the early 1970s over private telecommunications networks. The first services offered a few databases of indexes and abstracts of scholarly literature. These databases contained bibliographic descriptions of journal articles that were searchable by keywords in author and title, and sometimes by journal name or subject heading. The user interfaces were crude, the access was expensive, and searching was done by librarians on behalf of 'end users'.  
      See also 
      
       Citation index 
       Document-oriented database 
       Full-text database 
       List of academic databases and search engines 
       Institutional repository 
       Online public access catalog (OPAC; library catalog)
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Feather, John; Sturges, Paul, eds. (2003). International Encyclopedia of Information and Library Science (Second&nbsp;ed.). London: Routledge. p.&nbsp;127. ISBN&nbsp;0-415-25901-0.  
         ^ 
           Kusserow, Arne; Groppe, Sven (2014). "Getting Indexed by Bibliographic Databases in the Area of Computer Science". Open Journal of Web Technologies. 1 (2). doi:10.19210/OJWT_2014v1i2n02_Kusserow. Retrieved 26 May 2016.  
         ^ 
           Reitz, Joan M. (2004). "bibliographic database". Dictionary for Library and Information Science. Westport, Connecticut: Libraries Unlimited. p.&nbsp;70. ISBN&nbsp;1-59158-075-7.  
         ^ 
           Price, Gary (15 May 2019). "Impactstory Announces Beta Release of "Get The Research" Search Engine". LJ infoDOCKET. Retrieved 2020-04-25.  
         ^ 
           "information processing". Encyclopædia Britannica Online. 2010. Retrieved April 29, 2010.  
         ^ 
           Borgman, Christine L. (2007). Scholarship in the Digital Age: Information, Infrastructure, and the Internet. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. pp.&nbsp;89–90. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-02619-2.  
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bibliographic_database&amp;oldid=1067005036"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Bibliographic databases and indexes
       Library 2.0
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from May 2018
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Azərbaycanca
       Català
       Čeština
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       Hrvatski
       עברית
       ქართული
       Português
       Русский
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 06:22&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
