
 
  
   
  ProQuest Dissertations and Theses - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   ProQuest Dissertations and Theses 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Dissertations Abstracts)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       
        ProQuest Dissertations and Theses
       
       
        
         Producer
         ProQuest (United States)
        
        
         Access
        
        
         Cost
         Subscriptions
        
        
         Coverage
        
        
         Record depth
         Index, abstract &amp; full text
        
        
         Format coverage
         Dissertations and theses
        
        
         Temporal coverage
         1637 to present
        
        
         Links
        
        
         Website
         http://www.proquest.com/products-services/dissertations/
        
       
       
      ProQuest Dissertations and Theses (PQDT) is an online database that indexes, abstracts, and provides full-text access to dissertations and theses. The database includes over 2.4 million records and covers 1637 to the present. It is produced by ProQuest and was formerly known as ProQuest Digital Dissertations. The bibliographic database (without full-text dissertations) is known as Dissertations Abstracts or Dissertations Abstracts International. 
      PQDT annually publishes more than 90% of all dissertations submitted from accredited institutions of higher learning in North America as well as from colleges and universities in Europe and Asia. Over the past 60 years, PQDT has amassed more than 1.4 million titles beginning with the first U.S. dissertation accepted by a university (Yale) in 1861. ProQuest began digitizing dissertations in 1997 from a microform archive. 
      In October 2015, ProQuest added the ability for authors to include an ORCID identifier when submitting a thesis.  
      
      
       
        Dissertation Abstracts
       
       
        
         Producer
         ProQuest (United States)
        
        
         History
         1938 to present
        
        
         Access
        
        
         Cost
         Subscription
        
        
         Coverage
        
        
         Record depth
         Index &amp; abstract
        
        
         Format coverage
         Dissertations
        
        
         Temporal coverage
         1861–present
        
        
         Geospatial coverage
         Worldwide
        
        
         Print edition
        
        
         Print title
         Dissertation Abstracts International 
          
           Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences 
           Section B: Sciences and Engineering 
           Section C: Worldwide
           
        
        
         Links
        
        
         Website
         www.proquest.com/products-services/dissertations/Dissertations-Abstract-International.html
        
       
       
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Abstracts 
        2 See also 
        3 References 
        4 Further reading 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Abstracts 
      Dissertation Abstracts, Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI) is a bibliographic database of American dissertations published since 1938, initially by University Microfilms International (UMI) now by ProQuest, Ann Arbor. 
      DAI covers doctoral dissertations accepted at accredited American institutions since 1861. Selected master's theses have been included since 1962; since 1988, the database includes citations for dissertations from 50 British universities that are available at The British Document Supply Centre. Additionally, it covers a limited number of dissertations from the rest of the world. 
      The print version is published monthly and cumulated annually and it is available both in softcover and on microfiche. It is divided in three sections:  
      
       Section A, Humanities and Social Sciences (ISSN&nbsp;0419-4209) 
       Section B, Sciences and Engineering (
        ISSN&nbsp;0419-4217) 
       Section C (DAI-C)(formerly European Dissertations) (
        ISSN&nbsp;1042-7279) covers non-North American materials, most of them unavailable for purchase from ProQuest. As of 2008, ProQuest no longer offers DAI-C as a separate product.
       
      The usability of dissertation abstracts depends largely on their content. Many journals within the medical community have settled on a seven sentence structure, which is also gaining acceptance in the social sciences, education and business. In it, the purpose of the study and methodological choices are outlined succinctly, allowing the reader or researcher to quickly scan and evaluate a number of studies to easily choose ones that meet their particular demands. The structure contains variations on the following seven sentence stems: "The purpose of this study is...." "The scope of this study...." "The methodology...." "The Findings..." "Conclusions reached are ..." "Limitations of this study include...." "This study contributes...." Abstracts of dissertation proposals contain the same seven concepts, substituting data collection and analysis in place of findings and conclusions. Abstracts are limited in the United States by the UMI to 350 words. 
      Former titles and print titles: From 1969: Dissertations Abstract International; from 1951: Dissertations Abstracts; from Microfilm Abstracts (an annual catalog of the dissertations available for sale from UMI), American Doctoral Dissertations (ADD), (until 1964): Index to American Doctoral Dissertations, (until 1956): Doctoral Dissertations Accepted by American Universities. Masters Abstracts International (MAI). 
      There are different versions in print and online. The online version is Dissertation Abstracts Online while the print bibliography is termed Dissertation Abstracts International. Material except the abstracts themselves were issued also on CD-ROM under the title: Dissertation abstracts ondisc.  
      
       1997: Dissertations go digital with ProQuest Digital Dissertations 
       1998: Library of Congress recognizes UMI as offsite repository of Digital Dissertations Library
       
      See also 
      
       Gray literature 
       Indexing and abstracting service
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Database   
         ^ ProQuest Dissertations &amp; Theses Global  
         ^ 
           "ProQuest Digital Dissertations: UMI begins to digitize dissertations". Information Intelligence Online Libraries and Microcomputers. 15 (2): 12. Feb 1997.  
         ^ 
           "Connected from the Beginning: Adding ORCID to ETDs". 12 October 2015. Retrieved 15 October 2015 – via ProQuest.  
         ^ Dialog Bluesheet #35: http://library.dialog.com/bluesheets/html/bl0035.html  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Davinson, D. (1977). Theses and Dissertations as Information Sources. London: Clive Bingley. 
       Glatthorn, A. A. &amp; Joyner, R. L. (2005). Writing the Winning Thesis or Dissertation: A Step by Step Guide. Thousand Oaks, Corwin Press.
       
      External links 
      
       Official website
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
          This database-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
         
        
       
       
       
        
         v
         t
         e
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=ProQuest_Dissertations_and_Theses&amp;oldid=1052037457#Abstracts"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Database stubs
       Bibliographic databases and indexes
       Full-text scholarly online databases
       ProQuest
       Theses
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from October 2021
       Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
       All stub articles
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Français
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       Bahasa Melayu
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 27 October 2021, at 00:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
