
 
  
   
  Documentation - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Documentation 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Set of documents providing knowledge to explain a system
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           It has been suggested that Documentary evidence be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since May 2021.
          
        
       
       
      
      
       For a guide on using the documentation in Wikipedia templates, see }
       
       
      Documentation is any communicable material that is used to describe, explain or instruct regarding some attributes of an object, system or procedure, such as its parts, assembly, installation, maintenance and use. Documentation can be provided on paper, online, or on digital or analog media, such as audio tape or CDs. Examples are user guides, white papers, online help, and quick-reference guides. Paper or hard-copy documentation has become less common. Documentation is often distributed via websites, software products, and other online applications. 
      Documentation as a set of instructional materials shouldn't be confused with documentation science, the study of the recording and retrieval of information.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Principles for producing documentation 
        2 Producing documentation 
        3 Documentation in computer science 
          
          3.1 Types 
          3.2 Software Documentation Folder (SDF) tool 
          3.3 Software tools for Network Inventory and Configuration 
           
        4 Documentation in criminal justice 
        5 Documentation in early childhood education 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Principles for producing documentation 
      While associated ISO standards are not easily available publicly, a guide from other sources for this topic may serve the purpose.,, 
      Documentation development may involve document drafting, formatting, submitting, reviewing, approving, distributing, reposting and tracking, etc., and are convened by associated SOPs in a regulatory industry. It could also involve creating content from scratch. Documentation should be easy to read and understand. If it's too long and too wordy, it may be misunderstood or ignored. Clear, concise words should be used, and sentences should be limited to a maximum of 15 words. Documentation intended for a general audience should avoid gender-specific terms and cultural biases. In a series of procedures, steps should be clearly numbered.,,,  
      Producing documentation 
      Technical writers and corporate communicators are professionals whose field and work is documentation. Ideally, technical writers have a background in both the subject matter and also in writing, managing content, and information architecture. Technical writers more commonly collaborate with subject matter experts (SMEs), such as engineers, technical experts, medical professionals, etc. to define and then create documentation to meet the user's needs. Corporate communications includes other types of written documentation, for example:  
      
       Market communications (MarCom): MarCom writers endeavor to convey the company's value proposition through a variety of print, electronic, and social media. This area of corporate writing is often engaged in responding to proposals. 
       Technical communication (TechCom): Technical writers document a company's product or service. Technical publications can include user guides, installation and configuration manuals, and troubleshooting and repair procedures. 
       Legal writing: This type of documentation is often prepared by attorneys or paralegals. 
       Compliance documentation: This type of documentation codifies Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), for any regulatory compliance needs, as for safety approval, taxation, financing, technical approval, and all 
       Healthcare documentation: This field of documentation encompasses the timely recording and validation of events that have occurred during the course of providing health care.
       
      Documentation in computer science 
      
      
       Main article: Software documentation
       
      Types 
      The following are typical software documentation types:  
      
       Request for Proposal (RFP) 
       Requirements/ Statement of work/ Scope of Work (SOW) 
       Software Design and Functional Specification 
       System Design and Functional Specifications 
       Change Management, Error and Enhancement Tracking 
       User Acceptance Testing 
       Manpages
       
      The following are typical hardware and service documentation types:  
      
       Network diagrams 
       Network maps 
       Datasheet for IT systems (Server, Switch, e.g.) 
       Service Catalog and Service Portfolio (ITIL)
       
      Software Documentation Folder (SDF) tool 
      A common type of software document written in the simulation industry is the SDF. When developing software for a simulator, which can range from embedded avionics devices to 3D terrain databases by way of full motion control systems, the engineer keeps a notebook detailing the development "the build" of the project or module. The document can be a wiki page, MS word document or other environment. They should contain a requirements section, an interface section to detail the communication interface of the software. Often a notes section is used to detail the proof of concept, and then track errors and enhancements. Finally, a testing section to document how the software was tested. This documents conformance to the client's requirements. The result is a detailed description of how the software is designed, how to build and install the software on the target device, and any known defects and work-arounds. This build document enables future developers and maintainers to come up to speed on the software in a timely manner, and also provides a roadmap to modifying code or searching for bugs.  
      Software tools for Network Inventory and Configuration 
      These software tools can automatically collect data of your network equipment. The data could be for inventory and for configuration information. The ITIL Library requests to create such a database as a basis for all information for the IT responsible. It's also the basis for IT documentation. Examples include XIA Configuration.  
      Documentation in criminal justice 
      "Documentation" is the preferred term for the process of populating criminal databases. Examples include the National Counter-terrorism Center's Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment ("TIDE"), sex offender registries, and gang databases.  
      Documentation in early childhood education 
      Documentation, as it pertains to the early childhood education field, is "when we notice and value children's ideas, thinking, questions, and theories about the world and then collect traces of their work (drawings, photographs of the children in action, and transcripts of their words) to share with a wider community" 
      Thus, documentation is a process, used to link the educator's knowledge and learning of the child/children with the families, other collaborators, and even to the children themselves. 
      Documentation is an integral part of the cycle of inquiry - observing, reflecting, documenting, sharing and responding. 
      Pedagogical documentation, in terms of the teacher documentation, is the "teacher's story of the movement in children's understanding". According to Stephanie Cox Suarez in 'Documentation - Transforming our Perspectives', "teachers are considered researchers, and documentation is a research tool to support knowledge building among children and adults" 
      Documentation can take many different styles in the classroom. The following exemplifies ways in which documentation can make the 'research', or learning, visible:  
      
       Documentation Panels (bulletin-board-like presentation with multiple pictures and descriptions about the project or event). 
       Daily Log (a log kept every day that records the play and learning in the classroom) 
       Documentation developed by or with the children (when observing children during documentation, the child's lens of the observation is used in the actual documentation) 
       Individual Portfolios (documentation used to track and highlight the development of each child) 
       Electronic Documentation (using apps and devices to share documentation with families and collaborators) 
       Transcripts or Recordings of Conversations (using recording in documentation can bring about deeper reflections for both the educator and the child) 
       Learning Stories (a narrative used to "describe learning and help children see themselves as powerful learners") 
       The Classroom as Documentation (reflections and documentation of the physical environment of a classroom).
       
      Documentation is certainly a process in and of itself, and it is also a process within the educator. The following is the development of documentation as it progresses for and in the educator themselves:  
      
       Develop(s) habits of documentation 
       Become(s) comfortable with going public with recounting of activities 
       Develop(s) visual literacy skills 
       Conceptualize(s) the purpose of documentation as making learning styles visible, and 
       Share(s) visible theories for interpretation purposes and further design of curriculum.
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Authoring 
        Bibliographic control 
        Change control 
        Citation Index 
        Copyright 
        Description 
        Document 
        Documentation (field) 
        Documentation science 
        Document identifier 
        Document management system 
        Documentary 
        Freedom of information 
        Glossary 
        Historical document 
        Index (publishing) 
        ISO 2384:1977 
        ISO 259:1984 
        ISO 5123:1984 
        ISO 3602:1989 
        ISO 6357:1985 
        ISO 690 
        ISO 5964 
        ISO 9001 
        IEC 61355 
        International Standard Bibliographic Description 
        Journal of Documentation 
        Licensing 
        Letterhead 
        List of Contents 
        Technical documentation 
        User guide 
        Medical certificate 
        Publishing 
        Records management 
        Software documentation 
        Style guide 
        Technical communication
        
       
        
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Documentation definition by The Linux Information Project". www.linfo.org. Retrieved 9 August 2020.  
         ^ 
           N/A (2003). "Guide to Documentation" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 July 2007.  
         ^ 
           CGRP. "A Guide to Documentation Styles" (PDF). Retrieved 12 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           N/A. "A guide to MLA documentation" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 September 2006. Retrieved 12 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           Berger, David. "Procedures and Documentation" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 July 2011. Retrieved 15 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           Cropper, Mark; Tony Dibbens (2002). "GAIA-RVS Documentation Procedures" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 November 2005. Retrieved 15 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           N/A. "GLNPO's Quality System Documentation Review Procedures and Tracking" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 December 2008. Retrieved 15 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           UK Data Archive (2009). "Data Services Process Guides: Documentation Processing Procedures" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 June 2010. Retrieved 15 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           UK Data Archive. "Data Services Process Guides: Documentation Processing Techniques" (PDF). Retrieved 15 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           Springhouse (2008). Complete Guide to Documentation. p.&nbsp;ix. ISBN&nbsp;9781582555560. Retrieved 12 June 2009.  
         ^ 
           "XIA Configuration Network Documentation Tool". Retrieved 8 August 2017.  
         ^ 
           Rader Brown, Rebecca (2009). "The Gang's All Here: Evaluating the Need for a National Gang Database". Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems. 42: 293–333.  
         ^ a b c d e 
           Susan, Stacey (11 May 2015). Pedagogical documentation in early childhood&nbsp;: sharing children's learning and teachers' thinking. St. Paul, Minnesota. ISBN&nbsp;9781605543925. OCLC&nbsp;909907917.  
         ^ 
           "Documentation: Transforming our Perspectives | Project Zero". www.pz.harvard.edu. Retrieved 26 October 2018.  
         ^ 
           "ECRP. Vol 13 No 2". ecrp.uiuc.edu. Retrieved 26 October 2018.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Look up documentation in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
         
       
       
      
       IEEE Professional Communication Society 
       Documentation Definition by The Linux Information Project (LINFO) 
       Information &amp; Documentation List of selected tools 
       Library of articles on documentation: Technical writing and documentation articles Archived 18 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Documentation&amp;oldid=1066982659"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Technical communication
       Information science
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with dead external links
       Articles with dead external links from May 2016
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles to be merged from May 2021
       All articles to be merged
       Use dmy dates from March 2020
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2020
       Pages using div col with small parameter
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Azərbaycanca
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       한국어
       Հայերեն
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Македонски
       മലയാളം
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русиньскый
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       తెలుగు
       Türkçe
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 January 2022, at 03:34&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
