
 
  
   
  Academic discipline - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Academic discipline 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Cross-disciplinary)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Academic field of study or profession
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with School discipline.
       
        
      
      
       
        
         Part of a series on
        
        
         Research
        
        
         
        
        
          
          
           
            List of academic fields
           
            
            
             Applied sciences 
              
               R &amp; D
               
             Formal sciences 
             Humanities 
             Natural sciences 
             Professions 
             Social sciences
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research design
           
            
            
             Research proposal 
             Research question 
             Writing 
              
               Argument 
               Referencing
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Philosophy
           
            
            
              Constructivism 
             Empiricism 
             Positivism / Antipositivism / Postpositivism 
             Realism 
              
               Critical realism 
               Subtle realism
              
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Research strategy
           
            
            
             Interdisciplinary 
             Multimethodology 
             Qualitative 
             Quantitative
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methodology
           
            
            
             Action research 
             Art methodology 
             Critical theory 
             Feminism 
             Grounded theory 
             Hermeneutics 
             Historiography 
             Narrative inquiry 
             Phenomenology 
             Pragmatism 
             Scientific method
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Methods
           
            
            
             Case study 
             Content analysis 
             Descriptive statistics 
             Discourse analysis 
             Ethnography 
             Experiment 
              
               Field experiment 
               Social experiment 
               Quasi-experiment
               
             Field research 
             Historical method 
             Inferential statistics 
             Interviews 
             Mapping 
              
               Cultural mapping
               
             Phenomenography 
             Secondary research 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Literature review 
               Meta-analysis 
               Scoping review 
               Systematic review
               
             Scientific modelling 
              
               Simulation
               
             Survey
            
           
           
        
        
          
          
           
            Tools and software
           
            
            
             Argument technology 
             Geographic information system software 
             Library and information science software 
              
               Bibliometrics 
               Reference management
               
             Science software 
              
               Qualitative data analysis 
               Simulation 
               Statistics
              
            
           
           
        
        
          Philosophy portal
        
        
         
          
           
            v
            t
            e
           
          
        
       
       
      An academic discipline or academic field is a subdivision of knowledge that is taught and researched at the college or university level. Disciplines are defined (in part) and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published, and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties within colleges and universities to which their practitioners belong. Academic disciplines are conventionally divided into the humanities, including language, art and cultural studies, and the scientific disciplines, such as physics, chemistry, and biology; the social sciences are sometimes considered a third category. 
      Individuals associated with academic disciplines are commonly referred to as experts or specialists. Others, who may have studied liberal arts or systems theory rather than concentrating in a specific academic discipline, are classified as generalists. 
      While academic disciplines in and of themselves are more or less focused practices, scholarly approaches such as multidisciplinarity/interdisciplinarity, transdisciplinarity, and cross-disciplinarity integrate aspects from multiple academic disciplines, therefore addressing any problems that may arise from narrow concentration within specialized fields of study. For example, professionals may encounter trouble communicating across academic disciplines because of differences in language, specified concepts, or methodology. 
      Some researchers believe that academic disciplines may, in the future, be replaced by what is known as Mode 2 or "post-academic science", which involves the acquisition of cross-disciplinary knowledge through the collaboration of specialists from various academic disciplines.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Terminology 
        2 History of the concept 
        3 Functions and criticism 
        4 Communities of academic disciplines 
        5 Interactions 
          
          5.1 Multidisciplinary 
          5.2 Transdisciplinary 
          5.3 Cross-disciplinary 
           
        6 Bibliometric studies of disciplines 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Terminology 
      Also known as a field of study, field of inquiry, research field and branch of knowledge. The different terms are used in different countries and fields.  
      History of the concept 
      The University of Paris in 1231 consisted of four faculties: Theology, Medicine, Canon Law and Arts. Educational institutions originally used the term "discipline" to catalog and archive the new and expanding body of information produced by the scholarly community. Disciplinary designations originated in German universities during the beginning of the nineteenth century. 
      Most academic disciplines have their roots in the mid-to-late-nineteenth century secularization of universities, when the traditional curricula were supplemented with non-classical languages and literatures, social sciences such as political science, economics, sociology and public administration, and natural science and technology disciplines such as physics, chemistry, biology, and engineering. 
      In the early twentieth century, new academic disciplines such as education and psychology were added. In the 1970s and 1980s, there was an explosion of new academic disciplines focusing on specific themes, such as media studies, women's studies, and Africana studies. Many academic disciplines designed as preparation for careers and professions, such as nursing, hospitality management, and corrections, also emerged in the universities. Finally, interdisciplinary scientific fields of study such as biochemistry and geophysics gained prominence as their contribution to knowledge became widely recognized. Some new disciplines, such as public administration, can be found in more than one disciplinary setting; some public administration programs are associated with business schools (thus emphasizing the public management aspect), while others are linked to the political science field (emphasizing the policy analysis aspect). 
      As the twentieth century approached, these designations were gradually adopted by other countries and became the accepted conventional subjects. However, these designations differed between various countries. In the twentieth century, the natural science disciplines included: physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and astronomy. The social science disciplines included: economics, politics, sociology, and psychology. 
      Prior to the twentieth century, categories were broad and general, which was expected due to the lack of interest in science at the time. With rare exceptions, practitioners of science tended to be amateurs and were referred to as "natural historians" and "natural philosophers"—labels that date back to Aristotle—instead of "scientists". Natural history referred to what we now call life sciences and natural philosophy referred to the current physical sciences. 
      Prior to the twentieth century, few opportunities existed for science as an occupation outside the educational system. Higher education provided the institutional structure for scientific investigation, as well as economic support for research and teaching. Soon, the volume of scientific information rapidly increased and researchers realized the importance of concentrating on smaller, narrower fields of scientific activity. Because of this narrowing, scientific specializations emerged. As these specializations developed, modern scientific disciplines in universities also improved their sophistication. Eventually, academia's identified disciplines became the foundations for scholars of specific specialized interests and expertise.  
      Functions and criticism 
      An influential critique of the concept of academic disciplines came from Michel Foucault in his 1975 book, Discipline and Punish. Foucault asserts that academic disciplines originate from the same social movements and mechanisms of control that established the modern prison and penal system in eighteenth-century France, and that this fact reveals essential aspects they continue to have in common: "The disciplines characterize, classify, specialize; they distribute along a scale, around a norm, hierarchize individuals in relation to one another and, if necessary, disqualify and invalidate." (Foucault, 1975/1979, p. 223)  
      Communities of academic disciplines 
      Communities of academic disciplines can be found outside academia within corporations, government agencies, and independent organizations, where they take the form of associations of professionals with common interests and specific knowledge. Such communities include corporate think tanks, NASA, and IUPAC. Communities such as these exist to benefit the organizations affiliated with them by providing specialized new ideas, research, and findings. 
      Nations at various developmental stages will find the need for different academic disciplines during different times of growth. A newly developing nation will likely prioritize government, political matters and engineering over those of the humanities, arts and social sciences. On the other hand, a well-developed nation may be capable of investing more in the arts and social sciences. Communities of academic disciplines would contribute at varying levels of importance during different stages of development.  
      Interactions 
      These categories explain how the different academic disciplines interact with one another.  
      Multidisciplinary 
      
      
       Main article: Multidisciplinary approach
       
      Multidisciplinary knowledge is associated with more than one existing academic discipline or profession. 
      A multidisciplinary community or project is made up of people from different academic disciplines and professions. These people are engaged in working together as equal stakeholders in addressing a common challenge. A multidisciplinary person is one with degrees from two or more academic disciplines. This one person can take the place of two or more people in a multidisciplinary community. Over time, multidisciplinary work does not typically lead to an increase or a decrease in the number of academic disciplines. One key question is how well the challenge can be decomposed into subparts, and then addressed via the distributed knowledge in the community. The lack of shared vocabulary between people and communication overhead can sometimes be an issue in these communities and projects. If challenges of a particular type need to be repeatedly addressed so that each one can be properly decomposed, a multidisciplinary community can be exceptionally efficient and effective. 
      There are many examples of a particular idea appearing in different academic disciplines, all of which came about around the same time. One example of this scenario is the shift from the approach of focusing on sensory awareness of the whole, "an attention to the 'total field'", a "sense of the whole pattern, of form and function as a unity", an "integral idea of structure and configuration". This has happened in art (in the form of cubism), physics, poetry, communication and educational theory. According to Marshall McLuhan, this paradigm shift was due to the passage from the era of mechanization, which brought sequentiality, to the era of the instant speed of electricity, which brought simultaneity. 
      Multidisciplinary approaches also encourage people to help shape the innovation of the future. The political dimensions of forming new multidisciplinary partnerships to solve the so-called societal Grand Challenges were presented in the Innovation Union and in the European Framework Programme, the Horizon 2020 operational overlay. Innovation across academic disciplines is considered the pivotal foresight of the creation of new products, systems, and processes for the benefit of all societies' growth and wellbeing. Regional examples such as Biopeople and industry-academia initiatives in translational medicine such as SHARE.ku.dk in Denmark provide evidence of the successful endeavour of multidisciplinary innovation and facilitation of the paradigm shift.  
      Transdisciplinary 
      
      
       Main article: Transdisciplinarity
       
      In practice, transdisciplinary can be thought of as the union of all interdisciplinary efforts. While interdisciplinary teams may be creating new knowledge that lies between several existing disciplines, a transdisciplinary team is more holistic and seeks to relate all disciplines into a coherent whole.  
      Cross-disciplinary 
      Cross-disciplinary knowledge is that which explains aspects of one discipline in terms of another. Common examples of cross-disciplinary approaches are studies of the physics of music or the politics of literature.  
      Bibliometric studies of disciplines 
      Bibliometrics can be used to map several issues in relation to disciplines, for example, the flow of ideas within and among disciplines (Lindholm-Romantschuk, 1998) or the existence of specific national traditions within disciplines. Scholarly impact and influence of one discipline on another may be understood by analyzing the flow of citations. 
      The Bibliometrics approach is described as straightforward because it is based on simple counting. The method is also objective but the quantitative method may not be compatible with a qualitative assessment and therefore manipulated. The number of citations is dependent on the number of persons working in the same domain instead of inherent quality or published result's originality.  
      See also 
      
       Outline of academic disciplines 
       List of academic fields
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ Gibbons, Michael; Camille Limoges, Helga Nowotny, Simon Schwartzman, Peter Scott, &amp; Martin Trow (1994). The New Production of Knowledge: The Dynamics of Science and Research in Contemporary Societies. London: Sage.  
        ^ Ziman, John (2000). Real Science: What It Is, and What It Means. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.  
        ^ History of Education, Encyclopædia Britannica (1977, 15th edition), Macropaedia Volume 6, p. 337  
        ^ Jacques Revel (2003). "History and the Social Sciences". In Porter, Theodore; Ross, Dorothy (eds.). Cambridge History of Science: The Modern Social Sciences, Vol. 5. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;391–404. ISBN&nbsp;0521594421.  
        ^ 
          "How The Word 'Scientist' Came To Be". npr.org. National Public Radio. Retrieved November 3, 2014.  
        ^ 
          Cohen, E; Lloyd, S. "Disciplinary Evolution and the Rise of Transdiscipline" (PDF). Informing Science: the International Journal of an Emerging Transdiscipline.  
        ^ Foucault, Michel (1977). Discipline and Punish: The birth of the prison. Trans. Alan Sheridan. New York: Vintage. (Translation of: Surveiller et punir; naissance de la prison. &nbsp;: Gallimard, 1975).  
        ^ 
          "McLuhan: Understanding Media". Understanding Media. 1964. p.&nbsp;13. Archived from the original on December 8, 2008.  
        ^ Lindholm-Romantschuk, Y. (1998). Scholarly book reviewing in the social sciences and humanities. The flow of ideas within and among disciplines. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press.  
        ^ Ohlsson, H. (1999). Is there a Scandinavian psychology? A bibliometric note on the publication profiles of Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden. Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, 40, 235–39.  
        ^ Serenko, A. &amp; Bontis, N. (2013). The intellectual core and impact of the knowledge management academic discipline. Journal of Knowledge Management, 17(1), 137–55.  
        ^ 
          "Bibliometrics | The Guidelines project". www.guidelines.kaowarsom.be. Retrieved July 5, 2018.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Abbott, A. (1988). The System of Professions: An Essay on the Division of Expert Labor, University of Chicago Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-0-226-00069-5 
       Augsburg, T. (2005), Becoming Interdisciplinary: An Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies. 
       Dogan, M. &amp; Pahre, R. (1990). "The fate of formal disciplines: from coherence to dispersion." In Creative Marginality: Innovation at the Intersections of Social Sciences. Boulder, CO: Westview. pp.&nbsp;85–113. 
       Dullemeijer, P. (1980). "Dividing biology into disciplines: Chaos or multiformity?" Journal Acta Biotheoretica, 29(2), 87–93. 
       Fagin, R.; Halpern, J.Y.; Moses, Y. &amp; Vardi, M.Y. (1995). Reasoning about Knowledge, MIT Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-262-56200-6 
       Gibbons, M.; Limoges, C.; Nowotny, H.; Schwartzman, S.; Scott, P. &amp; Trow, M. (1994). The New Production of Knowledge: The Dynamics of Science and Research in Contemporary Societies. London: Sage. 
       Golinski, J. (1998/2005). Making Natural Knowledge: Constructivis, and the History of Science. New York: Cambridge University Press. Chapter 2: "Identity and discipline." Part II: The Disciplinary Mold. pp.&nbsp;66–78. 
       Hicks, D. (2004). "The Four Literatures of Social Science". IN: Handbook of Quantitative Science and Technology Research: The Use of Publication and Patent Statistics in Studies of S&amp;T Systems. Ed. Henk Moed. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic. 
       Hyland, K. (2004). Disciplinary Discourses: Social Interactions in Academic Writing. New edition. University of Michigan Press/ESL. 
       Klein, J.T. (1990). Interdisciplinarity: History, Theory, and Practice. Detroit: Wayne State University Press. 
       
        Krishnan, Armin (January 2009), What are Academic Disciplines? Some observations on the Disciplinarity vs. Interdisciplinarity debate (PDF), NCRM Working Paper Series, Southampton: ESRC National Centre for Research Methods, retrieved September 10, 2017 
       Leydesdorff, L. &amp; Rafols, I. (2008). A global map of science based on the ISI subject categories. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 
       Lindholm-Romantschuk, Y. (1998). Scholarly Book Reviewing in the Social Sciences and Humanities: The Flow of Ideas within and among Disciplines. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press. 
       Martin, B. (1998). Information Liberation: Challenging the Corruptions of Information Power. London: Freedom Press 
       Morillo, F.; Bordons, M. &amp; Gomez, I. (2001). "An approach to interdisciplinarity bibliometric indicators." Scientometrics, 51(1), 203–22. 
       Morillo, F.; Bordons, M. &amp; Gomez, I. (2003). "Interdisciplinarity in science: A tentative typology of disciplines and research areas". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 54(13), 1237–49. 
       Newell, A. (1983). "Reflections on the structure of an interdiscipline." In Machlup, F. &amp; U. Mansfield (Eds.), The Study of Information: Interdisciplinary Messages. pp.&nbsp;99–110. NY: John Wiley &amp; Sons. 
       Pierce, S.J. (1991). "Subject areas, disciplines and the concept of authority". Library and Information Science Research, 13, 21–35. 
       Porter, A.L.; Roessner, J.D.; Cohen, A.S. &amp; Perreault, M. (2006). "Interdisciplinary research: meaning, metrics and nurture." Research Evaluation, 15(3), 187–95. 
       Prior, P. (1998). Writing/Disciplinarity: A Sociohistoric Account of Literate Activity in the Academy. Lawrence Erlbaum. (Rhetoric, Knowledge and Society Series) 
       Qin, J.; Lancaster, F.W. &amp; Allen, B. (1997). "Types and levels of collaboration in interdisciplinary research in the sciences." Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 48(10), 893–916. 
       Rinia, E.J.; van Leeuwen, T.N.; Bruins, E.E.W.; van Vuren, H.G. &amp; van Raan, A.F.J. (2002). "Measuring knowledge transfer between fields of science." Scientometrics, 54(3), 347–62. 
       Sanz-Menendez, L.; Bordons, M. &amp; Zulueta, M. A. (2001). "Interdisciplinarity as a multidimensional concept: its measure in three different research areas." Research Evaluation, 10(1), 47–58. 
       Stichweh, R. (2001). "Scientific Disciplines, History of". Smelser, N.J. &amp; Baltes, P.B. (eds.). International Encyclopedia of the Social and Behavioral Sciences. Oxford: Elsevier Science. pp.&nbsp;13727–31. 
       Szostak, R. (October 2000). Superdisciplinarity: A Simple Definition of Interdisciplinarity With Profound Implications. Association for Integrative Studies, Portland, Oregon. (Meeting presentation) 
       Tengström, E. (1993). Biblioteks- och informationsvetenskapen – ett fler- eller tvärvetenskapligt område? Svensk Biblioteksforskning (1), 9–20. 
       Tomov, D.T. &amp; Mutafov, H.G. (1996). "Comparative indicators of interdisciplinarity in modern science." Scientometrics, 37(2), 267–78. 
       van Leeuwen, T.N. &amp; Tijssen, R.J.W. (1993). "Assessing multidisciplinary areas of science and technology – A synthetic bibliometric study of Dutch nuclear-energy research." Scientometrics, 26(1), 115–33. 
       van Leeuwen, T.N. &amp; Tijssen, R.J.W. (2000). "Interdisciplinary dynamics of modern science: analysis of cross-disciplinary citation flows." Research Evaluation, 9(3), 183–87. 
       Weisgerber, D.W. (1993). "Interdisciplinary searching – problems and suggested remedies – A Report from the ICSTI Group on Interdisciplinary Searching." Journal of Documentation, 49(3), 231–54. 
       Wittrock, B. (2001). "Disciplines, History of, in the Social Sciences." International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences, pp.&nbsp;3721–28. Smeltser, N.J. &amp; Baltes, P.B. (eds.). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
       
      External links 
      
       Association for Interdisciplinary Studies 
       Ryan Shaw. 2020. "Periodization in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization, eds. Birger Hjørland and Claudio Gnoli. 
       Sandoz, R. (ed.), Interactive Historical Atlas of the Disciplines, University of Geneva
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Germany 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Academic_discipline&amp;oldid=1070364742#Cross-disciplinary"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Academic disciplines
       Teaching
       Main topic articles
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from April 2017
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2013
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Български
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Interlingua
       Italiano
       עברית
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Magyar
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Português
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Tagalog
       Türkçe
       Українська
       اردو
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 February 2022, at 03:24&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
