
 
  
   
  View source for Library and information science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   View source for Library and information science 
    
    
     ← Library and information science
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reasons:  
      
       
        
        
          
           
           
            
             You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia.
             
            Editing from your IP address range (185.242.5.0/24) has been blocked (disabled) on all Wikimedia wikis until 20:14, 15 August 2023 by Martin Urbanec (meta.wikimedia.org) for the following reason:  
             
            
             No open proxies: please read the FAQ should you be affected
             
            This block began on 20:14, 15 August 2020 
            Your current IP address is 185.242.5.178. Please include all above details in any queries you make. 
            If you believe you were blocked by mistake, you can find additional information and instructions in the No open proxies global policy. Otherwise, to discuss the block post a request for review on Meta-Wiki or send an email to the stewards Volunteer Response Team queue at stewards@wikimedia.org including all above details.  
            
         
        
        
       
        
        
          You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia due to a block affecting this IP address.
         This does not affect your ability to read Wikipedia pages.
        
         
        Most people who see this message have done nothing wrong. Some kinds of blocks restrict editing from specific service providers or telecom companies in response to recent abuse or vandalism, and affect other users who are unrelated to that abuse. See below if you do not believe you have done anything wrong.
         
        Editing from 185.242.4.0/22 has been blocked (disabled) by ‪ST47‬ for the following reason(s):  
         
          
          
           
          The IP address that you are currently using has been blocked because it is believed to be a web host provider or colocation provider. To prevent abuse, web hosts and colocation providers may be blocked from editing Wikipedia. 
          
           You will not be able to edit Wikipedia using a web host or colocation provider because it hides your IP address, much like a proxy or VPN. 
           We recommend that you attempt to use another connection to edit. For example, if you use a proxy or VPN to connect to the internet, turn it off when editing Wikipedia. If you edit using a mobile connection, try using a Wi-Fi connection, and vice versa. If you have a Wikipedia account, please log in. If you do not have any other way to edit Wikipedia, you will need to request an IP block exemption. 
           If you are confident that you are not using a web host, you may appeal this block by adding the following text on your talk page: }. You must fill in the blank with your IP address for this block to be investigated. Your IP address can be determined here. Alternatively, if you wish to keep your IP address private you can use the unblock ticket request system. There are several reasons you might be editing using the IP address of a web host or colocation provider (such as if you are using VPN software or a business network); please use this method of appeal only if you think your IP address is in fact not a web host or colocation provider. 
           Administrators: The IP block exemption user right should only be applied to allow users to edit using web host in exceptional circumstances, and requests should usually be directed to the functionaries team via email. If you intend to give the IPBE user right, a CheckUser needs to take a look at the account. This can be requested most easily at SPI Quick Checkuser Requests. Unblocking an IP or IP range with this template is highly discouraged without at least contacting the blocking administrator.  
          
          
         
        This block has been set to expire: 21:09, 18 June 2023.  
        
        Even when blocked, you will usually still be able to edit your user talk page, and email administrators and other editors. 
        For information on how to proceed, first see the FAQ for blocked users and the guideline on block appeals. The guide to appealing blocks may also be helpful. 
        Other useful links: Blocking policy · Help:I have been blocked  
        
     
      
     
      You can view and copy the source of this page:
     ==The unique concern of library and information science==
"Concern for people becoming informed is not unique to LIS, and thus is insufficient to differentiate LIS from other fields. LIS are a part of a larger enterprise." (Konrad, 2007, p.&amp;nbsp;655).&lt;ref name="eschol"/&gt;

"The unique concern of LIS is recognized as: Statement of the core concern of LIS:
'''Humans becoming informed (constructing meaning) via intermediation between inquirers and instrumented records'''. No other field has this as its concern. " (Konrad, 2007, p.&amp;nbsp;660)

"Note that the promiscuous term ''information'' does not appear in the above statement circumscribing the field's central concerns: The detrimental effects of the ambiguity this term provokes are discussed above (Part III). Furner  has shown that discourse in the field is improved where specific terms are utilized in place of the i-word for specific senses of that term." (Konrad, 2007, p.&amp;nbsp;661).

Michael Buckland wrote: "Educational programs in library, information and documentation are concerned with what people know, are not limited to technology, and require wide-ranging expertise. They differ fundamentally and importantly from computer science programs and from the information systems programs found in business schools.".&lt;ref name="scarlid"/&gt;

Bawden and Robinson argue that while Information Science has overlaps with numerous other disciplines with interest in studying communication, it is unique in that it is concerned with all aspects of the communication chain.&lt;ref name = "Bawden"/&gt;}  For example, Computer Science may be interested in the indexing and retrieval, sociology with user studies, and publishing (business) with dissemination, whereas information science is interested in the study of all of these individual areas and the interactions between them.&lt;ref name="Bawden"/&gt;}

The organization of information and information resources is one of the fundamental aspects of LIS.&lt;ref name="Bawden"/&gt;} and is an example of both LIS's uniqueness and its multidisciplinary origins.  Some of the main tools used by LIS toward this end to provide access to the digital resources of modern times (particularly theory relating to indexing and classification) originated in 19th century to assist humanity's effort to make its intellectual output accessible by recording, identifying, and providing bibliographic control of printed knowledge.&lt;ref name="Bawden"/&gt;}  The origin for some of these tools were even earlier. For example, in the 17th century, during the ], publishers and sellers seeking to take advantage of the burgeoning book trade developed descriptive catalogs of their wares for distribution – a practice was adopted and further extrapolated by many libraries of the time to cover areas like philosophy, sciences, linguistics, medicine, etc.&lt;ref name="libhist"/&gt; }  In this way, a business concern of publishers – keeping track of and advertising inventory – was developed into a system for organizing and preserving information by the library.

The development of ] is another area that exemplifies the aim of LIS to be something more than an mishmash of several disciplines – that uniqueness Bawden and Robinson describe.  Pre-Internet classification systems and ] systems were mainly concerned with two objectives: 1. to provide rich bibliographic descriptions and relations between information objects and 2. to facilitate sharing of this bibliographic information across library boundaries.&lt;ref name = "Qin"/&gt;  }  The development of the Internet and the information explosion that followed found many communities needing mechanisms for the description, authentication and management of their information.&lt;ref name = "Qin"/&gt;}  These communities developed taxonomies and controlled vocabularies to describe their knowledge as well as unique information architectures to communicate these classifications and libraries found themselves as liaison or translator between these metadata systems.&lt;ref name = "Qin"/&gt;}  Of course the concerns of cataloging in the Internet era have gone beyond simple bibliographic descriptions.  The need for descriptive information about the ownership and copyright of a digital product – a publishing concern – and description for the different formats and accessibility features of a resource – a sociological concern – show the continued development and cross discipline necessity of resource description.&lt;ref name = "Qin"/&gt;}

In the 21st century, the usage of ], ] and ]s like ] has allowed thousands of libraries and institutions to collaborate on the production of global metadata services previously offered only by increasingly expensive commercial proprietary products. Examples include ] and ], which automates the search of an ] across thousands of repositories by libraries and research institutions.&lt;ref&gt;}&lt;/ref&gt;

Christopher M. Owusu-Ansah argued that, ''Many African universities have employed distance education to expand access to education and digital libraries can ensure seamless access to information for distance learners.''&lt;ref&gt;}&lt;/ref&gt;

     
     Return to Library and information science. 
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_and_information_science"
     
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Page information
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
    
 
