
 
  
   
  International Society for Knowledge Organization - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   International Society for Knowledge Organization 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       International professional association for scholars of knowledge organization
       
      
      
       
        International Society for Knowledge Organization
       
       
        
         Formation
         1989; 33&nbsp;years ago&nbsp;(1989)
        
        
         Founder
         Ingetraut Dahlberg
        
        
         Legal status
         Active
        
        
         
          
           Region 
          
         World
        
        
         
          
           President
          
         Rick Szostak
        
        
         
          
           President-Elect
          
         Thiago Henrique Bragato Barros
        
        
         
          
           Treasurer
          
         Athena Salaba
        
        
         
          
           Secretary
          
         David Haynes
        
        
         
          
           Board&nbsp;of directors
          
         Lu An (CHINA) Claudio Gnoli (University of Pavia, Italy)  Birger Hjørland (Royal School of LIS, Copenhagen, Denmark)  Athena Salaba (Kent State University, Kent, USA)  Richard P. Smiraglia (University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, USA)  Rick Szostak (University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada)  Thiago Barros (Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil)   Marcia Lei Zeng (Kent State University, Kent, USA)
        
        
         Affiliations
         UNESCO, European Commission, ISO, IFLA, ASIS&amp;T SIG/CR, NKOS, Infoterm
        
        
         Website
         http://www.isko.org/index.php
        
       
       
      The International Society for Knowledge Organization, or ISKO, is a professional association for scholars of knowledge organization, knowledge structures, classification studies, and information organization and structure. Founded in 1989, ISKO's mission is "to advance conceptual work in knowledge organization in all kinds of forms, and for all kinds of purposes, such as databases, libraries, dictionaries and the Internet." An interdisciplinary association, ISKO's worldwide membership draws from fields such as information science, philosophy, linguistics, library science, archive studies, science studies, and computer science. ISKO "promotes research, development and applications of knowledge organization systems that advance the philosophical, psychological and semantic approaches for ordering knowledge; provides the means of communication and networking on knowledge organization for its members; and functions as a connecting link between all institutions and national societies, working with problems related to the conceptual organization and processing of knowledge."  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Publications 
          
          1.1 Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization 
           
        2 Chapters 
        3 References 
        4 Other reading 
        5 External links 
        
       
      Publications 
      The Society publishes the academic journal Knowledge Organization as the official bi-monthly journal of ISKO. Founded in 1973 by Dr. Ingetraut Dahlberg, the first President of ISKO, it began publication the following year under the banner International Classification. In 1993 the title was changed to its present form. The journal publishes original research articles relating to general ordering theory, philosophical foundations of knowledge and its artifacts, theoretical bases of classification, data analysis and reduction. It also describes practical operations associated with indexing and classification. In addition to being a technical resource, the journal traces the history of knowledge organization and discusses questions of education and training in classification.  
      Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization 
      Since 2016, ISKO has published the Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization (IEKO), edited by Birger Hjorland and Claudio Gnoli. This work covers the history and development of different approaches to knowledge, core concepts in the space, comparisons of different systems and processes, and examples from current practice in regional and global projects. 
      The organization also holds biennial international conferences.  
      Chapters 
      ISKO officially recognizes regional chapters in Brazil, Canada and the United States, China, France, Germany (including Austria and Switzerland), India, Italy, Maghreb (including Tunisia + Algeria + Morocco), Poland, Singapore, Spain (including Portugal), the United Kingdom, and West Africa. ISKO cooperates with international and national organizations such as UNESCO, the European Commission, the International Organization for Standardization, the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions, the Association for Information Science and Technology, the Networked Knowledge Organization Systems/Services, and the International Information Centre for Terminology.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "About ISKO". www.isko.org. Retrieved 2016-10-17.  
         ^ 
           Hjorland, Birger. "ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization". www.isko.org. Retrieved 2021-07-12.  
        
       
       
      Other reading 
      Dahlberg, Ingetraut (2010) International Society for Knowledge Organization (ISKO), Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences, Third Edition, 1: 1, 2941 — 2949.  
      External links 
      
       International Society for Knowledge Organization (homepage) 
       "ISKO" in ISKO Encyclopedia of Knowledge Organization 
       International Society for Knowledge Organization-Brasil
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Czech Republic 
             Israel
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=International_Society_for_Knowledge_Organization&amp;oldid=1033302383"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       International professional associations
       Library science organizations
       Information science
       Library-related professional associations
       Organizations established in 1989
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Pages using infobox organization with unknown parameters
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Italiano
       Polski
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 12 July 2021, at 20:53&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
