
 
  
   
  International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Organization of libraries
       
        
      
      
       
        International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA)
       
       
        
         
        
        
         Established
         1927; 95&nbsp;years ago&nbsp;(1927)
        
        
         Type
         International nongovernmental organization
        
        
         Location
         
          
           
            Prins Willem-Alexanderhof 5, The Hague, Netherlands
           
          
        
        
         
          
           President
          
         Barbara Lison
        
        
         
          
           Secretary General
          
         Gerald Leitner
        
        
         Website
         www.ifla.org
        
       
       
      The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) is the leading international body representing the interests of people who rely on libraries and information professionals. An independent, non-governmental, not-for-profit organization, IFLA was founded in Scotland in 1927 and maintains headquarters at the National Library of the Netherlands in The Hague. IFLA sponsors the annual IFLA World Library and Information Congress, promoting universal and equitable access to information, ideas, and works of imagination for social, educational, cultural, democratic, and economic empowerment. IFLA also produces several publications, including IFLA Journal. 
      IFLA closely partners with UNESCO, resulting in several jointly produced manifestos. IFLA is also a founding member of Blue Shield, which works to protect the world's cultural heritage when threatened by wars and natural disaster.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Mission 
          
          2.1 Core values 
           
        3 Divisions 
        4 Strategic programmes 
          
          4.1 Committee on Copyright and other Legal Matters (CLM) 
          4.2 Committee on Free Access to Information and Freedom of Expression (FAIFE) 
          4.3 Library Development Program (LDP) 
          4.4 Strategic Programme on Preservation and Conservation (PAC) 
           
        5 IFLA Trend Report 
        6 Manifestos 
          
          6.1 Manifesto for Libraries Serving Persons with a Print Disability (LPD) 
           
        7 Jay Jordan IFLA/OCLC Early Career Development Fellowship Program 
          
          7.1 IFLA/OCLC Fellows by Year 
           
        8 President 
        9 Publications 
        10 See also 
        11 References 
        12 External links 
        
       
      History 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         2011 IFLA meeting in KB in the Hague
        
       
       
      IFLA was founded in Edinburgh, Scotland, on 30 September 1927, when library associations from 14 European countries and the United States signed a resolution at the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Library Association of the United Kingdom. Isak Collijn, head of the National Library of Sweden, was elected the first president. The first constitution was approved in Rome in 1929 during the World Congress of Librarianship and Bibliography. 
      During the 1930s the first library associations from outside Europe and the US joined, these being China, India, Japan, Mexico and the Philippines. By 1958 membership had grown to 64 associations from 42 countries. A permanent secretariat was established in 1962. By 1970 there were 250 members from 52 countries. The secretariat was moved to The Hague in 1971. By 1974 IFLA membership had become virtually global with 600 members in 100 countries. 
      Membership criteria were expanded beyond library associations in 1976 to include institutions, i.e. libraries, library schools and bibliographic institutes. At this time, the word Institutions was added to the organisation's name. Since then further new categories of membership have been created, including personal affiliates. 
      IFLA has now grown to over 1,700 members in approximately 155 countries. It is headquartered in the Koninklijke Bibliotheek, the National Library of the Netherlands, in The Hague.  
      Mission 
      "A strong and united library field powering literate, informed and participative societies." 
      IFLA's objectives are:  
      
       To represent librarianship in matters of international interest 
       To promote the continuing education of library personnel 
       To develop, maintain and promote guidelines for library services
       
      Core values 
      The objectives are informed by the following core values:  
      
       The endorsement of the principles of freedom of expression embodied in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
       The belief that people, communities and organizations need universal and equitable access to information, ideas and works of imagination for their social, educational, cultural, democratic and economic well-being 
       The conviction that delivery of high quality library and information services helps guarantee that access 
       The commitment to enable all Members of the Federation to engage in, and benefit from, its activities without regard to citizenship, disability, ethnic origin, gender, geographical location, language, political philosophy, race or religion.
       
      Divisions 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         How to spot fake news
         IFLA publication (2017)
        
       
       
      According to IFLA, their "most important work ... happens in the various groups that make up the organisation". 
      More than 60 sections, strategic programmes, and special interest groups are organized in five divisions to carry out a variety of IFLA's activities and programs. 
      These divisions are:  
      
       Library Types (Division I) - includes sections focused on academic, research, public, special, and school libraries; a strategic programme for Committee on Standards; and special interest groups, including Evidence for Global and Disaster Health (E4GDH) group. 
       Library Collections (Division II) - includes sections on acquisitions and collection development, rare books and special collections, and news media; strategic programmes on Preservation and Conservation (PAC) and the Committee on Standards; and special interest groups on LGBTQ users and on library publishing. 
       Library Services (Division III) - includes sections on Bibliography, Cataloguing, and Indigenous Matters; strategic programmes on UNIMARC and the Committee on Standards; and special interest groups on big data and Digital Humanities. 
       Support of the Profession (Division IV) - includes sections on library buildings and equipment, theory and research, and statistics and evaluation; strategic programmes for the Committee on Freedom of Access to Information and Freedom of Expression (FAIFE), Committee on Copyright and other Legal Matters (CLM), and the Committee on Standards; and special interest groups including Women, Information and Libraries Special Interest Group and LIS Education in Developing Countries. 
       Regions (Division V) - includes sections on Africa, Asia and Oceania, Latin America and the Caribbean; strategic programmes for the Library Development Programme (LDP) and the Committee on Standards; and special interest group for Access to Information Network – Africa (ATINA).
       
      Strategic programmes 
      IFLA operates six strategic programmes:  
      
       Committee on Standards 
       Copyright and other Legal Matters (CLM) Advisory Committee 
       Freedom of Access to Information and Freedom of Expression (FAIFE) Advisory Committee
       
      
       Library Development Programme (LDP) 
       Strategic Programme on Preservation and Conservation (PAC) 
       UNIMARC Strategic Programme.
       
      Committee on Copyright and other Legal Matters (CLM) 
      Copyright and intellectual property issues and laws have long been recognized important to the library profession. A volunteer-driven committee, the CLM was created to advise and represent IFLA on matters of international copyright law. 
      The CLM produces legal briefs and is the representative for IFLA at meetings of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). The CLM's activities for the WIPO involve:  
      
       Copyright limitations and exceptions for libraries and archives 
       Copyright limitations and exceptions for visually impaired persons 
       Relations with WIPO Secretariat 
       Opposition to the Broadcast Treaty at WIPO 
       Development Agenda at WIPO 
       Preservation of Traditional Knowledge at WIPO
       
      Committee on Free Access to Information and Freedom of Expression (FAIFE) 
      One of the core activities of IFLA is the Committee on Free Access to Information and Freedom of Expression, which monitors the state of intellectual freedom within the library community worldwide, supports IFLA policy development and co-operation with other international human rights organisations, and responds to violations of free access to information and freedom of expression. FAIFE provides guidance and leadership on issues of intellectual freedom around the world through the publication of annual reports, guidelines, manifestos, special reports, and statements. 
      The mission of FAIFE is to:  
      
       Raise awareness of the essential correlation between the library concept and the values of freedom of expression. 
       Collect and disseminate documentation and aim to stimulate a dialog both within and outside the library world. 
       Act as a focal point on the issue of freedom of expression, libraries and librarianship.
       
      IFLA/FAIFE is a member of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange, a global network of non-governmental organisations that monitors freedom of expression worldwide. It is also a member of the Tunisia Monitoring Group, a coalition of 16 free expression organisations that lobbies the Tunisian government to improve its human rights record.  
      Library Development Program (LDP) 
      Launched in 1984 and initially known as Advancement of Librarianship in the Third World, the programme has supported capacity building through a series of small grants and projects in developing and transition countries and advocacy for access to information. This program focuses predominantly on three main programs under its umbrella:  
      
       Building Strong Library Associations Programme 
       International Advocacy Programme (IAP), focusing on advocacy for the role of access to information and libraries in the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
       International Leader's Programme.
       
      Strategic Programme on Preservation and Conservation (PAC) 
      Established in 1984, the Strategic Programme on Preservation and Conservation (PAC) focuses on efforts to preserve library and archive materials, in any form, around the world. Unlike other IFLA Strategic Programmes, PAC features a decentralised approach, with global strategies implemented by a Focal Point and activities managed by Regional Centres. 
      PAC aims to ensure that both published and unpublished library and archive materials are preserved in an accessible form. In doing so, the programme follows three main guiding principles:  
      
       preservation is essential to the survival and development of culture and scholarship; 
       international cooperation is a key principle; 
       each country must accept responsibility for the preservation of its own publications.
       
      IFLA Trend Report 
      The first commissioned IFLA Trend Report, entitled "Caught in the waves or caught in the tide? Insights from the IFLA Trend Report", was published in January 2013 and launched at the World Library and Information Congress in Singapore on 19 August 2013. The IFLA Trend Report resulted in the identification of emerging high-level societal trends which may affect the global information environment. The Trend Report consists of a number of documents—including an overview, annotated bibliography and research papers—and is also intended as a web platform for ongoing consultation.: 3  In the first stage of the review from November 2012 through 2013, "social scientists, economists, business leaders, education specialists, legal experts and technologists"—mainly from outside the library field—were consulted.: 3  One of the key focal points of the report was the inundation of the archives with a tidal wave of information. By 2010 this represented more than 1 zettabytes of data or 1.8 trillion gigabytes.: 3  
      The report listed five key trends predicted to impact how societies and individuals "access, use, and benefit from information in an increasingly hyper-connected world":  
      
       new technologies that "will both expand and limit who has access to information" 
       online education that "will democratise and disrupt global learning" 
       redefinition of the boundaries of privacy and data protection 
       hyper-connected societies that "will listen to and empower new voices and groups: 
       transformation of the global information economy through new technologies: 4 
       
      The IFLA Trend Report continues to publish annual updates on these five key trends, as well as compiling and creating further resources.  
      Manifestos 
      IFLA has endorsed and collaborated on several manifestos that cover a wide range of issues related to libraries. These manifestos include:  
      
       IFLA/UNESCO Public Library Manifesto 1994 (1994) 
       IFLA/UNESCO School Library Manifesto 1999 (1999) 
       Alexandria Manifesto on Libraries, the Information Society in Action (2005) 
       IFLA Manifesto on Transparency, Good Governance and Freedom from Corruption (2008) 
       IFLA/UNESCO Multicultural Library Manifesto (2009) 
       IFLA Library Statistics Manifesto (2010) 
       IFLA/UNESCO Manifesto for Digital Libraries (2010) 
       IFLA Manifesto for libraries serving persons with a print disability (2012) 
       Internet Manifesto 2014 (2014) 
       A Library Manifesto for Europe (2019) 
       IFLA School Library Manifesto (2021)—forthcoming
       
      Manifesto for Libraries Serving Persons with a Print Disability (LPD) 
      Endorsed by IFLA's Governing Board in April 2012, the first draft of the Manifesto for Libraries Serving Persons with a Print Disability was intended to support the Marrakesh VIP Treaty. After further drafts, the LPD Manifesto was passed in November 2013 at the 37th UNESCO General Conference in Paris. The LPD Manifesto encourages libraries to provide more accessible library and information services for blind and visually impaired patrons. According to the IFLA, lack of access to information is the biggest barrier for persons with a print disability to fully and effectively participate in all aspects of society. 
      The six statements of the LPD Manifesto are as follows:  
      
       IFLA recommends that all library and information providers, as part of their core services, put in place services, collections, equipment and facilities, which will assist individual users with a print disability to access and use resources that meet their particular needs for information. 
       IFLA encourages library and information service providers to consult individuals with a disability, and groups representing them, in the planning, development and ongoing delivery of services. 
       IFLA acknowledges that the best services are provided by professionals who are aware of the needs of, and service options for, people with a print disability. Therefore, IFLA encourages all library and information services to ensure that staff are adequately trained and available to work with users with a print disability, and supports career-long professional development and formal library and information studies programs, which will facilitate the strengthening of equitable library and information services to people with a print disability. 
       IFLA supports efforts to improve access to resources by people with a print disability through service agreements, referrals and sharing of resources between library and information services; and between these and other organisations specialising in services targeted for people with a print disability. Therefore, IFLA encourages the establishment and development of an international network of libraries of accessible materials. 
       IFLA supports efforts to ensure that copyright legislation enables equal access by people with a print disability to information from all libraries and information providers. 
       In addition to meeting legislative requirements, IFLA encourages the observation of universal design principles, guidelines and standards to ensure that library and information services, collections, technologies, equipment and facilities meet the identified needs of users with a print disability.
       
      Jay Jordan IFLA/OCLC Early Career Development Fellowship Program 
      Sponsored by IFLA and OCLC, the Jay Jordan IFLA/OCLC Early Career Development Fellowship Program "provides early career development and continuing education for library and information science professionals from countries with developing economies." Each year, the four-week program provides up to five individuals with the opportunity to interact with important information practitioners in the field. Additionally, the Fellows deliver presentations that grapple with libraries' challenges and formulate development plans that benefit their personal career growth.  
      IFLA/OCLC Fellows by Year 
       
       
        IFLA/OCLC Fellows by Year 
        
       
         
         Year  
         Fellows 
         
         
         2019  
         John Oluwaseye Adebayo, Chrisland University, Nigeria Samar Jammoul, Safadi Public Library, Lebanon Davaasuren Myagmar, National Library of Mongolia Tracey-Ann Ricketts, National Library of Jamaica Ramiro Jose Rico Carranza, Universidad Católica Boliviana San Pablo, Bolivia  
         
         
         2018  
         Alehegn Adane Kinde, University of Gondar, Ethiopia Arnold Mwanzu, International Centre of Insect Physiology &amp; Ecology (icipe), Kenya Boris Đenadić, National Library of Serbia, Serbia Chantelle Richardson, National Library of Jamaica Chandra Pratama Setiawan, Petra Christian University, Indonesia  
         
         
         2017  
         Patience Ngizi-Hara, The Copperbelt University, Zambia Eric Nelson Haumba, YMCA Comprehensive Institute, Uganda Sharisse Rae Lim, National Library of the Philippines Jerry Mathema, Masiyephambili College, Zimbabwe Nguyen Van Kep, Hanoi University, Vietnam  
         
         
         2016  
         Idowu Adegbilero-Iwari, Nigeria Željko Dimitrijević, Serbia Penninah Musangi, Kenya Rhea Jade Nabusan, Philippines Shaharima Parvin, Bangladesh  
         
         
         2015  
         Stanislava Gardaševic, Serbia Nomsa Mathabela, Swaziland Masimba Muziringa, Zimbabwe Martin Julius Perez, Philippines Sadaf Rafiq, Pakistan  
         
         
         2014  
         Olufunmilayo Fati, Nigeria Franklin Flores Urrutia, El Salvador W. M. Tharanga Dilruk Ranasinghe, Sri Lanka Leonila Reyes, Philippines Sonam Wangdi, Bhutan  
         
         
         2013  
         Dwaymian Brissette, Jamaica Caroline Nyaga-Kithinji, Kenya David Ofili, Nigeria Rozita Petrinska-Labudovikj, Republic of Macedonia Chona San Pedro, Philippines  
         
         
         2012  
         Efua Ayiah, Ghana Gladys Mungai, Kenya Md. Shafiur Rahman, Bangladesh Tanzela Shaukat, Pakistan Ngozi Ukachi, Nigeria  
         
         
         2011  
         Khumo Dibeela, Botswana Geanrose Lagumbay, Philippines Ngwira Fiskani, Malawi Milan Vasiljevic, Serbia Tian Xiaodi, China  
         
         
         2010  
         Sasekea Harris, Jamaica Mahmoud Khalifa, Egypt Elchin Mammadov, Azerbaijan Catherine Muriuki, Kenya Sidra Shan, Pakistan Shao Yan, China  
         
         
         2009  
         John Kiyaga, Uganda Ani Minasyan, Republic of Armenia Caleb Ouma, Kenya Saima Qutab, Pakistan Raymond Sikanyika, Zambia Vesna Vuksan, Serbia  
         
         
         2008  
         Hanan Erhif, Morocco Atanu Garai, India Kamal Giri, Nepal Sarah Kaddu, Uganda Cyrill Walters, South Africa  
         
         
         2007  
         Kodjo Atiso, Ghana Alicia Esguerra, Philippines Pauline Nicholas, Jamaica Elisangela Silva, Brazil Nevena Tomić, Serbia  
         
         
         2006  
         Maria Cherrie, Trinidad &amp; Tobago Janete Estevão, Brazil Festus Ngetich, Kenya Roman Purici, Moldova Salmubi, Indonesia  
         
         
         2005  
         Thomas Bello, Malawi Xiaoqing Cai, China Edwar Delgado, Colombia Lela Nanuashvili, Georgia Rev. Gillian Wilson, Jamaica  
         
         
         2004  
         Nayana Wijayasundara, Sri Lanka MacAnthony Cobblah, Ghana Musa Olaka, Rwanda Muhammad Rafiq, Pakistan  
         
         
         2003  
         Anjali Gulati, India Ibrahim Ramjaun, Mauritius Vu Thi Nha, Vietnam Hyekyong Hwang, Korea Selenay Aytaç, Turkey  
         
         
         2002  
         Ferry Iranian, Indonesia Sibongile Madolo, South Africa Purity Mwagha, Kenya J.K. Vijayakumar, India Dayang Zarina Abang Ismail, Malaysia  
         
         
         2001  
         Andy Igonor, South Africa Tuba Akbayturk, Turkey Smita Chandra, India Rashidah Bolhassan, Malaysia  
        
       
       
      President 
      The current president of IFLA is Barbara Lison.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         IFLA Presidents in time. 
          In yellow the presidents with a Wikipedia article, in gray without a Wikipedia article. In red female presidents and in green male presidents. Data from August 2019.
        
       
       
       
       
         List of presidents of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions 
        
       
         
         Name  
         Tenure 
         
         
         Isak Collijn  
         1927 to 1931 
         
         
         William Warner Bishop  
         1931 to 1936 
         
         
         Marcel Godet  
         1936 to 1947 
         
         
         Wilhelm Munthe  
         1947 to 1951 
         
         
         Pierre Bourgeois  
         1951 to 1958 
         
         
         Gustav Hofmann  
         1958 to 1963 
         
         
         Sir Frank Francis  
         1963 to 1969 
         
         
         Herman Liebaers  
         1969 to 1974 
         
         
         Preben Kirkegaard  
         1974 to 1979 
         
         
         Else Granheim  
         1979 to 1985 
         
         
         Hans-Peter Geh  
         1985 to 1991 
         
         
         Robert Wedgeworth  
         1991 to 1997 
         
         
         Christine Deschamps  
         1997 to 2003 
         
         
         Kay Raseroka  
         2003 to 2005 
         
         
         Alex Byrne  
         2005 to 2007 
         
         
         Claudia Lux  
         2007 to 2009 
         
         
         Ellen Tise  
         2009 to 2011 
         
         
         Ingrid Parent  
         2011 to 2013 
         
         
         Sinikka Sipilä  
         2013 to 2015 
         
         
         Donna Scheeder  
         2015 to 2017 
         
         
         Gloria Pérez-Salmerón  
         2017 to 2019 
         
         
         Christine Mackenzie  
         2019 to 2021 
         
         
         Barbara Lison  
         2021 to 2023 
        
       
       
      Publications 
      
       IFLA Journal is an academic journal in the fields of libraries, library and information science, and freedom of information published quarterly by SAGE Publication on behalf of IFLA 
       IFLA Publications Series 
       IFLA Series on Bibliographic Control 
       IFLA Professional Reports
       
      See also 
      
       Public library ratings 
       Coordinating Council of Audiovisual Archives Association 
       UNESCO Public Library Manifesto
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "IFLA Journal". SAGE Journals. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA: The International Federation of Libraries". Goethe.de. Retrieved 8 May 2013.  
         ^ 
           "History". Blue Shield International. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ a b c Henry, Carol. "International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions", World Encyclopedia of Library and Information Services ed. Wedgeworth, Robert. 3rd ed. 1993. Pages 378–382. 
           ISBN&nbsp;0-8389-0609-5, 
           ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8389-0609-5.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA Global Vision". IFLA. 3 March 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "Activities and Groups". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Activities and Groups". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Evidence for Global and Disaster Health (E4GDH) Special Interest Group". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Division of Library Types". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Division of Library Collections". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Division of Library Services". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Division of Support of the Profession". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Division of Regions". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Activities and Groups". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           Rubin, Richard (2010). Foundations of Library and Information Science (3&nbsp;ed.). New York: Neal-Schuman. p.&nbsp;343. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-55570-690-6.  
         ^ 
           "Committee on Copyright and other Legal Matters (CLM)". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.  
         ^ 
           "Activities". IFLA. 24 March 2014. Retrieved 11 November 2014.  
         ^ FAIFE website  
         ^ 
           "About FAIFE". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.  
         ^ 
           "Publications from FAIFE". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.  
         ^ 
           "FAIFE Mission". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.  
         ^ IFEX website  
         ^ 
           "Action for Development through Libraries Programme".  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Building Strong Library Associations". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- The International Advocacy Programme (IAP)". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Libraries, Development and the United Nations 2030 Agenda". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA International Leaders Programme". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "About the Preservation and Conservation Strategic Programme". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.  
         ^ 
           "About the Preservation and Conservation Strategic Programme". IFLA. 22 September 2014. Retrieved 11 November 2014.  
         ^ a b c d e f 
           Riding the Waves or Caught in the Tide? Insights from the IFLA Trend Report (PDF) (Report). The Hague, Netherlands: International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions. 19 August 2013. p.&nbsp;16. Retrieved 9 February 2016.  
         ^ 
           John Gantz; David Reinsel (June 2011), "The Digital Universe Study: Extracting Value from Chaos" (PDF), International Data Corporation, Framingham, MA, retrieved 9 February 2016  
         ^ a b 
           "IFLA Trend Report". trends.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA/UNESCO Public Library Manifesto 1994". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA/UNESCO School Library Manifesto 1999". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Alexandria Manifesto on Libraries, the Information Society in Action". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA Manifesto on Transparency, Good Governance and Freedom from Corruption". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA/UNESCO Multicultural Library Manifesto". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA Library Statistics Manifesto". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA/UNESCO Manifesto for Digital Libraries". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA Manifesto for libraries serving persons with a print disability". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- Internet Manifesto 2014". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "A Library Manifesto for Europe". A Library Manifesto for Europe. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA -- IFLA School Library Manifesto (2021) open for comments". www.ifla.org. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           Marlin, Mike (November–December 2014). "Promoting Access for Blind and Visually Impaired Patrons". American Libraries. American Library Association. 45 (11/12): 21–22. Retrieved 4 November 2014.  
         ^ a b 
           "IFLA Manifesto for libraries serving persons with a print disability". International Federation of Library Associations. 7 May 2014. Retrieved 4 November 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Jordan IFLA/OCLC Fellowship Program". Retrieved 2 September 2014.  
         ^ a b 
           "The Jay Jordan IFLA/OCLC Early Career Development Fellowship Program". OCLC. 26 March 2021. Retrieved 29 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "President 2021-2023". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions. Retrieved 25 September 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Ramírez-Ordóñez, David (3 March 2020). "Gender gap, Wikipedia and libraries (in Spanish: Brecha de género, Wikipedia y bibliotecas)". Nomono. Retrieved 26 May 2020.  
         ^ 
           "IFLA Presidents". International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions. Retrieved 2 May 2020.  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions.
         
       
       
      
       Official website
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            International Science Council (ISC)
           
         
         
          Nationalmembers
          
            
            
             Albania 
             Angola 
             Argentina 
             Armenia 
             Australia 
             Austria 
             Azerbaijan 
             Bangladesh 
             Belarus 
             Belgium 
             Benin 
             Bolivia 
             Bosnia &amp; Herzegovina 
              
               Republika Srpska
               
             Botswana 
             Brazil 
              
               ANPOCS
               
             Bulgaria 
             Burkina Faso 
             Cameroon 
             Canada 
              
               SSHRC
               
             Chile 
             China 
              
               CASS
               
             Colombia 
             Costa Rica 
             Côte d'Ivoire 
             Cuba 
             Czech Republic 
             Denmark 
             Dominican Republic 
             Egypt 
             El Salvador 
             Estonia 
             Eswatini 
             Ethiopia 
             Finland 
             France 
             Georgia 
             Germany 
             Ghana 
             Greece 
             Guatemala 
             Honduras 
             Hungary 
             India 
              
               ICSSR
               
             Indonesia 
             Iran 
             Iraq 
             Ireland 
             Israel 
             Italy 
             Jamaica 
             Japan 
             Jordan 
             Kazakhstan 
             Kenya 
             North Korea 
             South Korea 
              
               KSSRC 
               KAST
               
             Laos 
             Latvia 
             Lebanon 
             Lesotho 
             Lithuania 
             Luxembourg 
             Madagascar 
             Malawi 
             Malaysia 
             Mauritius 
             Mexico 
              
               COMECSO
               
             Moldova 
             Monaco 
             Mongolia 
             Montenegro 
             Morocco 
             Mozambique 
             Namibia 
             Nepal 
             Netherlands 
             New Zealand 
             Nigeria 
             North Macedonia 
             Norway 
              
               UB
               
             Oman 
             Pakistan 
             Panama 
             Peru 
             Philippines 
              
               PSSC
               
             Poland 
             Portugal 
             Romania 
             Russia 
             Rwanda 
             Saudi Arabia 
             Senegal 
             Serbia 
             Seychelles 
             Singapore 
             Slovak Republic 
             Slovenia 
             South Africa 
              
               HSRC
               
             Spain 
             Sri Lanka 
             Sudan 
             Sweden 
             Switzerland 
             Switzerland 
             Taiwan 
             Tajikistan 
             Tanzania 
             Thailand 
             Togo 
             Tunisia 
             Turkey 
              
               Science Academy 
               TÜBİTAK
               
             Uganda 
             Ukraine 
             United Kingdom 
              
               British Academy 
               ESRC
               
             United States 
             Uruguay 
             Uzbekistan 
             Vatican City 
             Venezuela 
             Vietnam 
             Zambia 
             Zimbabwe
             
           
         
         
          Transnationalmembers
          
            
            
             ACSS 
             AASSREC 
             CASS 
             CLACSO 
             CODESRIA 
             FLACSO 
             UAI 
             OSSREA 
             University of the South Pacific
             
           
         
         
          Unions andassociations
          
            
            
             4S 
             IALS 
             IASSA 
             IAU 
             ICA 
             IEA 
             IFSM 
             IGU 
             IMU 
             INQUA 
             IPRA 
             IPSA 
             ISA 
             ISEE 
             ISPRS 
             IUBMB 
             IUBS 
             IUCr 
             IUFoST 
             IUFRO 
             IUGG 
             IUGS 
             IUHPST 
             IUIS 
             IUMRS 
             IUMS 
             IUNS 
             IUPAB 
             IUPAC 
             IUPAP 
             IUPESM 
             IUPHAR 
             IUPS 
             IUPsyS 
             IUSS 
             IUSSP 
             IUTAM 
             IUTOX 
             URSI 
             WAPOR 
             WAU
             
           
         
         
          Affiliatedmembers
          
            
            
             AAS 
             AASSA 
             ACSS 
             ASTC 
             CIE 
             EADI 
             ECPR 
             FIG 
             GYA 
             IAAP 
             IAHR 
             IASC 
             ICA 
             ICIAM 
             ICLAS 
             ICO 
             ICSTI 
             IFDO 
             IFIP 
             IFLA 
             IFS 
             IIASA 
             ISA 
             ISDE 
             IUVSTA 
             IWA 
             PSA 
             SSRC 
             TNI 
             TWAS 
             UIS
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          General
          
            
            
             ISNI 
              
               1 
               2
               
             VIAF 
              
               1
               
             WorldCat
             
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Norway 
             Chile 
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Catalonia 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan 
             Czech Republic 
             Australia 
             Greece 
             Israel 
             Croatia 
             Poland
             
           
         
         
          Scientific databases
          
            
            
             CiNii (Japan)
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology 
             RERO (Switzerland) 
              
               1
               
             SUDOC (France) 
              
               1
               
             Trove (Australia) 
              
               1
              
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=International_Federation_of_Library_Associations_and_Institutions&amp;oldid=1070796426"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       1927 establishments in Scotland
       International organisations based in the Netherlands
       Library associations
       Members of the International Council for Science
       Organizations established in 1927
       World Digital Library partners
       Members of the International Science Council
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from February 2016
       Commons category link from Wikidata
       Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
       Articles with ISNI identifiers
       Articles with VIAF identifiers
       Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers
       Articles with BIBSYS identifiers
       Articles with BNC identifiers
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with CANTIC identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
       Articles with NLA identifiers
       Articles with NLG identifiers
       Articles with NLI identifiers
       Articles with NSK identifiers
       Articles with PLWABN identifiers
       Articles with CINII identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
       Articles with RERO identifiers
       Articles with SUDOC identifiers
       Articles with Trove identifiers
       Articles with multiple identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Català
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       עברית
       Latviešu
       Magyar
       മലയാളം
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 February 2022, at 09:27&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
