
 
  
   
  Scholarly communication - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Scholarly communication 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Process of creation, transformation, dissemination and preservation of scholarly knowledge
       
      
      
       Not to be confused with Science communication.
       
      Scholarly communication involves the creation, publication, dissemination and discovery of academic research, primarily in peer-reviewed journals and books. It is “the system through which research and other scholarly writings are created, evaluated for quality, disseminated to the scholarly community, and preserved for future use." This primarily involves the publication of peer-reviewed academic journals, books and conference papers. 
      There are many issues with scholarly communication, which include author rights, the peer review process, the economics of scholarly resources, new models of publishing (including open access and institutional repositories), rights and access to federally funded research and preservation of intellectual assets. 
      Common methods of scholarly communication include publishing peer-reviewed articles in academic journals, academic monographs and books, book reviews and conference papers. Other textual formats used include preprints and working papers, reports, encyclopedias, dictionaries, data and visualisations, blogs and discussion forums. Other forms, particularly in the arts and humanities include multimedia formats such as sound and video recordings.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Terminology 
          
          1.1 Manuscript 
          1.2 Preprint 
          1.3 Postprint 
          1.4 Article 
          1.5 Paper 
          1.6 e-Script 
           
        2 Scholarly communication and data publishing 
        3 Peer review and quality control 
        4 Scholarly communication and libraries 
        5 Scholarly communication and academic reward and reputation 
        6 Scholarly communication crisis 
        7 See also 
        8 References 
        9 Further reading 
        10 External links 
        
       
      Terminology 
      Manuscript 
      
       a scholarly document which has not yet been submitted for publication.
       
      Preprint 
      
       There are two working definitions. a scholarly manuscript that has been submitted for peer review, or a scholarly document at any stage prior to the completion of peer review.
       
      Postprint 
      
       the final peer reviewed version of a manuscript that has been accepted for publication 
       materials that have been accepted to be presented at a conference
       
      Article 
      
       a scholarly document which has been published.
       
      Paper 
      
       a scholarly document or material which has been presented at a conference.
       
      e-Script 
      
       an electronic manuscript
       
      Scholarly communication and data publishing 
      The modern research author requires a reliable and standardized method to make research data available to other members of their community. This need has resulted in the development of a new form of scholarly communication known as data publishing. The process involves making data accessible, reusable and citable for long term use and is more elaborate than simply providing access to a data file. Data is becoming an important element of scholarship as a sharable source to be reused and shared. The same data can be accessed by multiple researchers to ask new questions or to replicate research for verification and augmentation. Categories of data differ among disciplines, as does its accessibility. Many publications have begun to offer incentives to scholarly researchers to publish their data and have developed the necessary infrastructure in support of e-research. Technical, policy, and institutional factors are becoming more established. The next phase will see the integration of the process into a standardized data publishing methodology. 
      There are several types of data that researchers must to protect when collecting, handling, storing and sharing data to safeguard the confidentiality of contributors. There are three primary types of information. Personally identifiable information includes any data that allows the identity of an individual to whom the information applies to be realistically deduced by either direct or indirect means. Protected health information includes individually identifiable health information transmitted or maintained in any form or medium by a covered entity. Other sensitive information that should be protected include data that if it were disclosed would have a significant likelihood to cause psychological, social, emotional, physical, or reputation harm. A common approach for data sharing that includes confidential material is through de-identification or anonymization. There are numerous techniques for the de-identification of data including simply removing specific variables or by using statistical techniques such as top-coding, collapsing or combining, sampling, swapping, or disturbing the data. For qualitative data, redaction can be used to hide data elements that cannot be made public. However, it is important that future research requirements be taken into consideration when developing a de-identification or anonymization plan.  
      Peer review and quality control 
      
      
       Main article: Scholarly peer review
       
      A key element of the scholarly communication process is ensuring that research meets a level of quality and is of scholarly merit. This is normally done through a process of peer review, where other researchers in the same discipline review the research write up and decide if it is of sufficient quality. For example, in the case of a journal article, the author(s) of a piece of research will submit their article to a journal, it will then be sent to a number of other academics who specialize in the same area to be peer reviewed. The journal will often receive many more articles than there is space to publish them, and it is in their interest to publish only those of the highest quality (which will over time increase the reputation of the journal). If the reviewers feel the article is of a high enough quality for the journal, they will often request some changes to be made and once these are done, accept the article for publication.  
      Scholarly communication and libraries 
      Libraries and librarians play a critical role in the aggregation, evaluation and dissemination of scholarly communication. The Scholarly Communication Toolkit was designed by the Research and Scholarly Environment Committee of the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) to support advocacy efforts designed to transform the scholarly communication landscape. 
      The future of research libraries will be shaped by broader developments at research universities in the areas of creating, sharing, disseminating, and curating knowledge. Universities face fundamental policy choices in all of the areas that have been recast by developments in information technology. Current trends in digital scholarship practices across the humanities, science, and social science have significant implications for research libraries in academic institutions as a means of framing policy choices. 
      Many research libraries have formalized the role of Scholarly Communications Librarian and defined specific responsibilities, including the implementation of outreach programs to increase awareness relative to copyright (particularly section 108 of the US Copyright Act), open access, and other scholarly communication issues. Through these types of programs, librarians have established their role relative to the structure of the library organization by formalizing the discussion of these issues in research and e-learning activities. They also contribute in teaching copyright literacy by being active in all stages of the research process. 
      Other resources: The Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, Library Publishing Coalition  
      Scholarly communication and academic reward and reputation 
      
      
       Main article: Publish or perish
       
      Scholarly communication is seen as a crucial part of research, and researchers - many of whom are lecturers and academics at universities - are often judged by their academic output and list of publications. Promotions will normally take into account the number of publications and how prestigious the journals they were published in (e.g. Nature and The Lancet are seen as very prestigious journals within the sciences). A researcher's publication list will help them create a positive reputation within their discipline. The proliferation of open access journals has facilitated this process by providing a means for scholars to publish their research regardless of perceived importance, as is the case with traditional journals. Publications such as PLOS ONE and Scientific Reports follow an author pay model, where the peer review and publishing service are provided for a one time cost to the writer. The material is then made available at no cost to others, who can then build on this research without limitation. This approach results in the acceptance and publishing of a greater percentage of submissions across a broader subject area.  
      Scholarly communication crisis 
      
      
       Main article: Serials crisis
       
      The term "scholarly communications" has been in common usage at least since the mid-1970s, in recent years there has been widespread belief that the traditional system for disseminating scholarship has reached a state of crisis (often referred to as the "publishing crisis" or "serials crisis") 
      The proliferation of new journals and the "twigging" of established journals into smaller sub-specialities, combined with rising prices, especially in the sciences, have dramatically reduced the capacity of research libraries to purchase resources required by their scholarly communities. All disciplines and formats are affected, the humanities and social sciences as well as the sciences, books as well as journals. The proliferation of electronic journals and the various pricing models for this information has further complicated the acquisitions issue, both for libraries and for publishers. 
      Many groups, including library consortia, research funders, academics and universities have been calling for changes to the ways scholarly communication takes place, particularly in light of the Internet creating new and low cost methods to disseminate research, while still maintaining a 'peer review' process to ensure that the quality of research is maintained. To advance research in this area and to produce sustainable publication tools, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has funded a cohort of projects based on university campuses and at academic presses "to change scholarly practice in ways that advance teaching, research, preservation, and publication." Recent technological developments, such as open access and institutional repositories at universities are seen as vehicles for changing or improving the scholarly communication process. 
       Chief among the factors contributing to the perceived crisis is the academic reward system, which emphasizes quantity of publication. There is a consequent demand by scholars for peer-reviewed publication outlets. Another important cause is the commercialization and internationalization of scholarly publishing. The growing dominance of publishing conglomerates in scientific, technical, and medical fields, and to some degree in the social sciences, is of special concern to information professionals. Scholars, often indifferent to rights issues, transfer copyright to for-profit publishers, frequently for reports of research funded wholly or partially at public expense. Commercial publishers have established a highly profitable niche for themselves in the scholarly communication chain.
       
      
       See also: Scientific journal §&nbsp;Cost
       
      See also 
      
       FORCE11 
       Open access 
       Open science
       
      References 
      
        
        ^ Fruin, Christine. "LibGuides: Scholarly Communication Toolkit: Scholarly Communication Overview". acrl.libguides.com. Retrieved 2019-08-08.  
        ^ 
          admin (2006-09-01). "Principles and Strategies for the Reform of Scholarly Communication 1". Retrieved 2016-08-30.  
        ^ 
          "Bernard Becker Medical Library". Retrieved 22 October 2018.  
        ^ 
          Maron, Nancy L.; Smith, K. Kirby (2009-02-15). "Current Models of Digital Scholarly Communication: Results of an Investigation Conducted by Ithaka Strategic Services for the Association of Research Libraries". The Journal of Electronic Publishing. 12 (1). doi:10.3998/3336451.0012.105. ISSN&nbsp;1080-2711.  
        ^ 
          Borgman, Christine L. (2008-01-01). "Data, disciplines, and scholarly publishing". Learned Publishing. 21 (1): 29–38. doi:10.1087/095315108X254476. ISSN&nbsp;1741-4857.  
        ^ 
          "HIPAA.com - Compliance Made Easy". HIPAA.com. Retrieved 2016-10-11.  
        ^ 
          "ACRL Scholarly Communication Toolkit". acrl.ala.org. Retrieved 2016-08-30.  
        ^ 
          Lynch, Clifford; Carleton, Don E. (2009-04-09). "Lecture: Impact of Digital Scholarship on Research Libraries". Journal of Library Administration. 49 (3): 227–244. doi:10.1080/01930820902785041. ISSN&nbsp;0193-0826.  
        ^ 
          Nilsson, I (2016). "Developing new copyright services in academic libraries. Insights". The UKSG Journal. 29 (1): 78. doi:10.1629/uksg.276.  
        ^ 
          "University of Connecticut Libraries". Retrieved 22 October 2018.  
        ^ 
          ""The Crisis in Scholarly Communication", Iowa State University Communication". Retrieved 22 October 2018.  
        ^ 
          "Open access policy - Wellcome". www.wellcome.ac.uk. Retrieved 22 October 2018.  
        ^ Scholarly Communications | The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. (n.d.). Retrieved May 9, 2017, from https://mellon.org/programs/scholarly-communications/  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Davis-Kahl, Stephanie; Hensley, Merinda Kaye (2013). Common Ground at the Nexus of Information Literacy and Scholarly Communication. ISBN&nbsp;9780838986219. 
       
        Genoni, Paul; Merrick, Helen; Willson, Michele A. (2006). "Scholarly communities, e‐research literacy and the academic librarian". The Electronic Library. 24 (6): 734–746. doi:10.1108/02640470610714189. 
       
        Klain-Gabbay, Liat; Shoham, Snunith (2016). "Scholarly communication and academic librarians". Library &amp; Information Science Research. 38 (2): 170–179. doi:10.1016/j.lisr.2016.04.004. 
       
        Thomas, Wm. Joseph (2013). "The Structure of Scholarly Communications within Academic Libraries". Serials Review. 39 (3): 167–171. doi:10.1080/00987913.2013.10766387. hdl:10342/4120.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Scholia has a topic profile for Scholarly communication.
         
       
       
      
       Scholarly Communication at the Association of College and Research Libraries, a Division of the American Library Association 
       Scholarly Communication at the Association of Research Libraries 
       Scholarly Communication in Africa Programme (SCAP), and the OpenUCT Initiative at The University of Cape Town (UCT)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Academic publishing
           
         
         
          Journals
          
            
            
             Academic journal 
             Scientific journal 
             Open access journal
             
           
         
         
          Papers
          
            
            
             Scholarly paper 
             Review article 
             Position paper 
             Literature review
             
           
         
         
          Grey literature
          
            
            
             Working paper 
             White paper 
             Technical report 
             Annual report 
             Pamphlet 
             Essay 
             Lab notes
             
           
         
         
          Other types of publication
          
            
            
             Thesis (Collection of articles, Monograph) 
             Specialized patent (biological, chemical) 
             Book 
             Book chapter 
             Poster session 
             Abstract
             
           
         
         
          Impact and ranking
          
            
            
             Acknowledgment index 
             Altmetrics 
             Article-level metrics 
             Author-level metrics 
             Bibliometrics 
             Citation impact 
             Citation index 
             Journal ranking 
             Eigenfactor 
             h-index 
             Impact factor 
             SCImago Journal Rank 
             Scientometrics
             
           
         
         
          Reform
          
            
            
             Academic journal publishing reform 
             Full-text-on-the-Net bias (FUTON bias) 
             Open access 
             Serials crisis 
             Sci-Hub 
             #ICanHazPDF
             
           
         
         
          Versioning
          
            
            
             Preprint 
             Postprint 
             Version of Record 
             Erratum/corrigendum 
             Retraction
             
           
         
         
          Indexes and search engines
          
            
            
             Google Scholar 
             AMiner 
             BASE 
             CORE 
             Semantic Scholar 
             Scopus 
             Web of Science
             
           
         
         
          Related topics
          
            
            
             Imprint 
             Scientific writing 
             Peer review 
             Proceedings 
             Scientific literature 
             Learned society 
             Open research 
             Open science data 
             ORCID 
             Electronic publishing 
             Ingelfinger rule 
             Least publishable unit 
             Publish or perish 
             Public health journal
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Academic journals 
             Scientific journals 
             Open-access journals 
             Academic databases and search engines 
             University presses 
             Copyright policies 
             Preprint policies 
             Style/formatting guides 
             Category:Academic publishing 
             Category:Scientific documents
             
           
         
         
          
           
             Portal
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scholarly_communication&amp;oldid=1051029768"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Scholarly communication
       Library science
       Academic publishing
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 21 October 2021, at 06:48&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
