
 
  
   
  Interaction design - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Interaction design 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
       Interaction design, often abbreviated as IxD, is "the practice of designing interactive digital products, environments, systems, and services.": xxvii, 30  Beyond the digital aspect, interaction design is also useful when creating physical (non-digital) products, exploring how a user might interact with it. Common topics of interaction design include design, human–computer interaction, and software development. While interaction design has an interest in form (similar to other design fields), its main area of focus rests on behavior.: xxvii, 30  Rather than analyzing how things are, interaction design synthesizes and imagines things as they could be. This element of interaction design is what characterizes IxD as a design field as opposed to a science or engineering field. 
      While disciplines such as software engineering have a heavy focus on designing for technical stakeholders, interaction design is focused on meeting the needs and optimizing the experience of users, within relevant technical or business constraints.: xviii   
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Methodologies 
          
          2.1 Goal-oriented design 
          2.2 Usability 
          2.3 Personas 
          2.4 Cognitive dimensions 
          2.5 Affective interaction design 
           
        3 Five dimensions 
          
          3.1 Words 
          3.2 Visual representations 
          3.3 Physical objects or space 
          3.4 Time 
          3.5 Behavior 
           
        4 Interaction Design Association 
        5 Related disciplines 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        
       
      History 
      The term interaction design was coined by Bill Moggridge and Bill Verplank in the mid-1980s, but it took 10 years before the concept started to take hold.: 31  To Verplank, it was an adaptation of the computer science term user interface design for the industrial design profession. To Moggridge, it was an improvement over soft-face, which he had coined in 1984 to refer to the application of industrial design to products containing software. 
      The earliest programs in design for interactive technologies were the Visible Language Workshop, started by Muriel Cooper at MIT in 1975, and the Interactive Telecommunications Program founded at NYU in 1979 by Martin Elton and later headed by Red Burns. 
      The first academic program officially named "Interaction Design" was established at Carnegie Mellon University in 1994 as a Master of Design in Interaction Design. At the outset, the program focused mainly on screen interfaces, before shifting to a greater emphasis on the "big picture" aspects of interaction—people, organizations, culture, service and system. 
      In 1990, Gillian Crampton Smith founded the Computer-related Design MA at the Royal College of Art (RCA) in London, changed in 2005 to Design Interactions, headed by Anthony Dunne. In 2001, Crampton Smith helped found the Interaction Design Institute Ivrea, a small institute in Olivetti's hometown in Northern Italy, dedicated solely to interaction design. The institute moved to Milan in October 2005 and merged with Domus Academy. In 2007, some of the people originally involved with IDII set up the Copenhagen Institute of Interaction Design (CIID). After Ivrea, Crampton Smith and Philip Tabor added the Interaction Design (IxD) track in the Visual and Multimedia Communication at Iuav, University of Venice, Italy, between 2006 and 2014. 
      In 1998, the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research founded The Interactive Institute—a Swedish research institute in the field of interaction design.  
      Methodologies 
      Goal-oriented design 
      Goal-oriented design (or Goal-Directed design) "is concerned with satisfying the needs and desires of the users of a product or service.": xxviii, 31  
      Alan Cooper argues in The Inmates Are Running the Asylum that we need a new approach to solving interactive software-based problems.: 1  The problems with designing computer interfaces are fundamentally different from those that do not include software (e.g., hammers). Cooper introduces the concept of cognitive friction, which is when the interface of a design is complex and difficult to use, and behaves inconsistently and unexpectedly, possessing different modes.: 22  
      Alternatively, interfaces can be designed to serve the needs of the service/product provider. User needs may be poorly served by this approach.  
      Usability 
      Usability answers the question "can someone use this interface?". Jakob Nielsen describes usability as the quality attribute that describes how usable the interface is. Shneiderman proposes principles for designing more usable interfaces called "Eight Golden Rules of Interface Design"—which are well-known heuristics for creating usable systems.  
      Personas 
      Personas are archetypes that describe the various goals and observed behaviour patterns among users. 
      A persona encapsulates critical behavioural data in a way that both designers and stakeholders can understand, remember, and relate to. Personas use storytelling to engage users' social and emotional aspects, which helps designers to either visualize the best product behaviour or see why the recommended design is successful.  
      Cognitive dimensions 
      The cognitive dimensions framework provides a vocabulary to evaluate and modify design solutions. Cognitive dimensions offer a lightweight approach to analysis of a design quality, rather than an in-depth, detailed description. They provide a common vocabulary for discussing notation, user interface or programming language design. 
      Dimensions provide high-level descriptions of the interface and how the user interacts with it: examples include consistency, error-proneness, hard mental operations, viscosity and premature commitment. These concepts aid the creation of new designs from existing ones through design maneuvers that alter the design within a particular dimension.  
      Affective interaction design 
      Designers must be aware of elements that influence user emotional responses. For instance, products must convey positive emotions while avoiding negative ones. Other important aspects include motivational, learning, creative, social and persuasive influences. One method that can help convey such aspects is for example, the use of dynamic icons, animations and sound to help communicate, creating a sense of interactivity. Interface aspects such as fonts, color palettes and graphical layouts can influence acceptance. Studies showed that affective aspects can affect perceptions of usability. 
      Emotion and pleasure theories exist to explain interface responses. These include Don Norman's emotional design model, Patrick Jordan's pleasure model and McCarthy and Wright's Technology as Experience framework.  
      
      
       See also: Interaction cost
       
      Five dimensions 
      The concept of dimensions of interaction design were introduced in Moggridge's book Designing Interactions. Crampton Smith wrote that interaction design draws on four existing design languages, 1D, 2D, 3D, 4D. Silver later proposed a fifth dimension, behaviour.  
      Words 
      This dimension defines interactions: words are the element that users interact with.  
      Visual representations 
      Visual representations are the elements of an interface that the user perceives; these may include but are not limited to "typography, diagrams, icons, and other graphics".  
      Physical objects or space 
      This dimension defines the objects or space "with which or within which users interact".  
      Time 
      The time during which the user interacts with the interface. An example of this includes "content that changes over time such as sound, video or animation".  
      Behavior 
      Behavior defines how users respond to the interface. Users may have different reactions in this interface.  
      Interaction Design Association 
      The Interaction Design Association was created in 2003 to serve the community. The organization has over 80,000 members and more than 173 local groups. IxDA hosts Interaction the annual interaction design conference, and the Interaction Awards.  
      Related disciplines 
      
       
        Industrial design
        
       
        The core principles of industrial design overlap with those of interaction design. Industrial designers use their knowledge of physical form, color, aesthetics, human perception and desire, and usability to create a fit of an object with the person using it.
       
       
      
       
        Human factors and ergonomics
        
       
        Certain basic principles of ergonomics provide grounding for interaction design. These include anthropometry, biomechanics, kinesiology, physiology and psychology as they relate to human behavior in the built environment.
       
       
      
       
        Cognitive psychology
        
       
        Certain basic principles of cognitive psychology provide grounding for interaction design. These include mental models, mapping, interface metaphors, and affordances. Many of these are laid out in Donald Norman's influential book The Design of Everyday Things.
       
       
      
       
        Human–computer interaction
        
       
        Academic research in human–computer interaction (HCI) includes methods for describing and testing the usability of interacting with an interface, such as cognitive dimensions and the cognitive walkthrough.
       
       
      
       
        Design research
        
       
        Interaction designers are typically informed through iterative cycles of user research. User research is used to identify the needs, motivations and behaviors of end users. They design with an emphasis on user goals and experience, and evaluate designs in terms of usability and affective influence.
       
       
      
       
        Architecture
        
       
        As interaction designers increasingly deal with ubiquitous computing, urban informatics and urban computing, the architects' ability to make, place, and create context becomes a point of contact between the disciplines.
       
       
      
       
        User interface design
        
       
        Like user interface design and experience design, interaction design is often associated with the design of system interfaces in a variety of media but concentrates on the aspects of the interface that define and present its behavior over time, with a focus on developing the system to respond to the user's experience and not the other way around.
       
       
      See also 
      
       
       
        Chief experience officer (CXO) 
        Data presentation architecture 
        Hardware interface design 
        Human interface guidelines (user friendly computer application designs) 
        Information architecture 
        Instructional design 
        Interaction Design Foundation 
        Interaction design pattern 
        Interactive systems engineering 
        Interactivity 
        Interface design 
        Kinetic user interface 
        Mobile interaction 
        Service design 
        Sonic interaction design 
        Transgenerational design 
        Usability 
        User experience design 
        User-centered design 
        Web literacy (creating interactive experiences on the web) 
        Media psychology 
        Design prototyping
       
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c d e f Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Kaye; Keezer, Leiben (2007). About Face 3: The Essentials of Interaction Design. Indianapolis, Indiana: Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-08411-3. Retrieved 18 July 2011.  
        ^ 
          "Integrate business modeling and interaction design". 8 June 2007. Archived from the original on 12 February 2008.  
        ^ 
          "Bill Verplank - Professional". Archived from the original on 23 January 2008.  
        ^ *
          Moggridge, Bill (2007). Designing Interactions. MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-13474-3.  
        ^ 
          Martin, Douglas (26 August 2013). "Red Burns, 'Godmother of Silicon Alley,' Dies at 88". The New York Times. ISSN&nbsp;0362-4331. Archived from the original on 24 May 2016. Retrieved 1 August 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 30 November 2012. Retrieved 3 December 2012.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ RCA Design Interactions Website Archived 10 July 2010 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ RCA Design Interactions About Students Staff &amp; Guests Research Graduating Projects Archived 5 December 2013 at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ a b 
          Cooper, Alan (2004). Inmates Are Running the Asylum, The: Why High-Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity. Sams Publishing. p.&nbsp;288. ISBN&nbsp;0-672-32614-0.  
        ^ 
          "Usability 101: Introduction to Usability". nngroup.com. Archived from the original on 1 September 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Shneiderman's Eight Golden Rules of Interface Design". faculty.washington.edu. Archived from the original on 9 January 2017.  
        ^ a b 
          Goodwin, Kim (2009). Designing for the Digital Age. Wiley. p.&nbsp;229. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-22910-1.  
        ^ 
          An, J.; Kwak, H.; Jung, S.; Salminen, J.; Admad, M.; Jansen, Bernard James (1 November 2018). "Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data". ACM Transactions on the Web. 12 (4): 27. doi:10.1145/3265986. ISSN&nbsp;1559-1131. S2CID&nbsp;53578657.  
        ^ 
          T. R. G. Green (2000). "Instructions and Descriptions: some cognitive aspects of programming and similar activities". CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.32.8003. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
        ^ a b 
          Sharp, Helen; Rogers, Yvonne; Preece, Jenny (2007). Interaction Design: Beyond Human–Computer Interaction (2nd&nbsp;ed.). John Wiley &amp; Sons. pp.&nbsp;181–217 .  
        ^ 
          "Four pleasures".  
        ^ 
          "Technology as Experience | the MIT Press".  
        ^ 
          Moggridge, Bill (2007). Designing Interactions. The MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-13474-3.  
        ^ 
          Silver, Kevin. "What Puts the Design in Interaction Design". UX Matters. Archived from the original on 15 November 2011. Retrieved 6 March 2012.  
        ^ 
          "Interaction Design Association – IxDA". Archived from the original on 2 June 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Interaction Design Association - Homepage | IxDA". ixda.org. Archived from the original on 2 June 2016. Retrieved 3 June 2016.  
        ^ 
          "Interaction 16". Archived from the original on 17 November 2015.  
        ^ 
          "Home/ IxD Awards". Archived from the original on 13 October 2013.  
        ^ a b c d 
          "Disciplines &amp; Domains of Interaction Design". Archived from the original on 6 July 2011. Retrieved 19 July 2011.  
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Bolter, Jay D.; Gromala, Diane (2008). Windows and Mirrors: Interaction Design, Digital Art, and the Myth of Transparency. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-262-02545-4. 
       
        Buchenau, Marion; Suri, Jane Fulton. Experience Prototyping. DIS 2000. ISBN&nbsp;1-58113-219-0. 
       
        Buxton, Bill (2005). Sketching the User Experience. New Riders Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-321-34475-8. 
       
        Cooper, Alan (1999). The Inmates are Running the Asylum. Sams. ISBN&nbsp;0672316498. 
       
        Cooper, Alan; Reimann, Robert; Cronin, David; Noessel, Christopher (2014). About Face (4th&nbsp;ed.). Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;9781118766576. 
       
        Dawes, Brendan (2007). Analog In, Digital Out. Berkeley, California: New Riders Press. 
       
        Goodwin, Kim (2009). Designing for the Digital Age: How to Create Human-Centered Products and Services. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-22910-1. 
       
        Houde, Stephanie; Hill, Charles (1997). "What Do Prototypes Prototype?". In Helander, M; Landauer, T; Prabhu, P (eds.). Handbook of Human–Computer Interaction (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Elsevier Science. 
       Jones, Matt &amp; Gary Marsden: Mobile Interaction Design, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2006, 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-470-09089-8. 
       
        Kolko, Jon (2009). Thoughts on Interaction Design. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-12-378624-1. 
       
        Laurel, Brenda; Lunenfeld, Peter (2003). Design Research: Methods and Perspectives. MIT Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-262-12263-4. 
       
        Tinauli, Musstanser; Pillan, Margherita (2008). "Interaction Design and Experiential Factors: A Novel Case Study on Digital Pen and Paper". Mobility '08: Proceedings of the International Conference on Mobile Technology, Applications, and Systems. New York: ACM. doi:10.1145/1506270.1506400. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-60558-089-0. 
       
        Norman, Donald (1988). The Design of Everyday Things. New York: Basic Books. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-465-06710-7. 
       
        Raskin, Jef (2000). The Humane Interface. ACM Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-201-37937-6. 
       
        Saffer, Dan (2006). Designing for Interaction. New Riders Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-321-43206-1.
       
      =  
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Design
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline 
             Designer
             
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Disciplines
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Communicationdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Advertising 
                     Book design 
                     Brand design 
                     Exhibit design 
                     Film title design 
                     Graphic design 
                      
                       Motion 
                       Postage stamp design 
                       Print design
                       
                     Illustration 
                     Information design 
                     Instructional design 
                     News design 
                     Photography 
                     Retail design 
                     Signage&nbsp;/ Traffic sign design 
                     Typography&nbsp;/ Type design 
                     Video design 
                     Visual merchandising
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Environmentaldesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Architecture 
                     Architectural lighting design 
                     Building design 
                      
                       Passive solar
                       
                     Ecological design 
                     Environmental impact design 
                     Garden design 
                      
                       Computer-aided
                       
                     Healthy community design 
                     Hotel design 
                     Interior architecture 
                     Interior design 
                      
                       EID
                       
                     Keyline design 
                     Landscape architecture 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Landscape design 
                     Spatial design 
                     Urban design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Industrialdesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Automotive design 
                     Automotive suspension design 
                     CMF design 
                     Corrugated box design 
                     Electric guitar design 
                     Furniture design 
                      
                       Sustainable
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Motorcycle design 
                     Packaging and labeling 
                     Photographic lens design 
                     Product design 
                     Production design 
                     Sensory design 
                     Service design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Interactiondesign
                  
                    
                    
                     Experience design 
                      
                       EED
                       
                     Game design 
                      
                       Level design 
                       Video game design
                       
                     Hardware interface design 
                     Icon design 
                     Immersive design 
                     Information design 
                     Sonic interaction design 
                     User experience design 
                     User interface design 
                     Web design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherapplied arts
                  
                    
                    
                     Public art design 
                     Ceramic&nbsp;/ glass design 
                     Fashion design 
                      
                       Costume design 
                       Jewellery design
                       
                     Floral design 
                     Game art design 
                     Property design 
                     Scenic design 
                     Sound design 
                     Stage/set lighting design 
                     Textile design
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Otherdesign&amp; engineering
                  
                    
                    
                     Algorithm design 
                     Behavioural design 
                     Boiler design 
                     Database design 
                     Drug design 
                     Electrical system design 
                     Experimental design 
                     Filter design 
                     Geometric design 
                     Work design 
                     Integrated circuit design 
                      
                       Circuit design 
                       Physical design 
                       Power network design
                       
                     Mechanism design 
                     Nuclear weapon design 
                     Nucleic acid design 
                     Organization design 
                     Process design 
                     Processor design 
                     Protein design 
                     Research design 
                     Social design 
                     Software design 
                     Spacecraft design 
                     Strategic design 
                     Systems design
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Approaches
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Activity-centered 
                 Adaptive web 
                 Affective 
                 Brainstorming 
                 By committee 
                 By contract 
                 C-K theory 
                 Closure 
                 Co-design 
                 Concept-oriented 
                 Configuration 
                 Contextual 
                 Continuous 
                 Cradle-to-cradle 
                 Creative problem-solving 
                 Creativity techniques 
                 Critical 
                  
                   Design fiction
                   
                 Defensive 
                 Design–bid–build 
                 Design–build 
                  
                   architect-led
                   
                 Diffuse 
                 Domain-driven 
                 Ecological design 
                 Energy neutral 
                 Engineering design process 
                  
                   Probabilistic design
                   
                 Error-tolerant 
                 Fault-tolerant 
                 Framework-oriented 
                 For assembly 
                 For behaviour change 
                 For manufacturability 
                 For Six Sigma 
                 For testing 
                 For X 
                 Functional 
                 Generative 
                 Geodesign 
                 HCD 
                 High-level 
                 Inclusive 
                 Integrated 
                 Integrated topside 
                 Intelligence-based 
                 Iterative 
                 KISS principle 
                 Low-level 
                 Metadesign 
                 Mind mapping 
                 Modular 
                 New Wave 
                 Object-oriented 
                 Open 
                 Parametric 
                 Participatory 
                 Platform-based 
                 Policy-based 
                 Process-centered 
                 Public interest 
                 Rational 
                 Regenerative 
                 Reliability engineering 
                 Research-based 
                 Responsibility-driven 
                 RWD 
                 Safe-life 
                 Sustainable 
                 Systemic 
                  
                   SOD
                   
                 Tableless web 
                 Theory of constraints 
                 Top-down and bottom-up 
                 Transformation 
                 Transgenerational 
                 TRIZ 
                 Universal 
                  
                   Design for All
                   
                 Usage-centered 
                 Use-centered 
                 User-centered 
                  
                   Empathic
                   
                 User innovation 
                 Value-driven 
                 Value sensitive 
                  
                   Privacy by
                  
                 
                
                 Design choice 
                 computing 
                 controls 
                 culture 
                 flow 
                 leadership 
                 management 
                 marker 
                 methods 
                 pattern 
                 research 
                 science 
                 sprint 
                 strategy 
                 theory 
                 thinking
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  Intellectual property
                  Organizations
                  Awards
                 
                
               
             
             
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Tools
                  
                    
                    
                     AAD 
                     Architectural model 
                     Blueprint 
                     Comprehensive layout 
                     CAD 
                      
                       CAID 
                       Virtual home design software
                       
                     CAutoD 
                     Design quality indicator 
                     Electronic design automation 
                     Flowchart 
                     Mockup 
                     Design specification 
                     Prototype 
                     Sketch 
                     Storyboard 
                     Technical drawing 
                     HTML editor 
                     Website wireframe
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Intellectualproperty
                  
                    
                    
                     Community design 
                     Design around 
                     Design infringement 
                     Design patent 
                     Fashion design copyright 
                     Geschmacksmuster 
                     Industrial design rights 
                      
                       European Union
                      
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Organizations
                  
                    
                    
                     American Institute of Graphic Arts 
                     Chartered Society of Designers 
                     Design and Industries Association 
                     Design Council 
                     International Forum Design 
                     The Design Society 
                     Design Research Society
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Awards
                  
                    
                    
                     European Design Award 
                     German Design Award 
                     Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art) 
                     Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum) 
                     Graphex 
                     IF Product Design Award 
                     James Dyson Award 
                     Prince Philip Designers Prize
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
           
           
            
             
              
               
                Related topics
               
             
             
              
                
                
                 Aesthetics 
                 Agile 
                 Concept art 
                 Conceptual design 
                 Creative industries 
                 Cultural icon 
                 .design 
                 Enterprise architecture 
                 Form factor 
                 Futures studies 
                 Indie design 
                 Innovation management 
                 Intelligent design 
                 Lean startup 
                 New product development 
                 OODA loop 
                 Philosophy of design 
                 Process simulation 
                 Slow design 
                 STEAM fields 
                 Unintelligent design 
                 Visualization 
                 Wicked problem
                 
                
                 Design brief 
                 change 
                 classic 
                 competition 
                  
                   architectural 
                   student
                   
                 director 
                 education 
                 elements and principles 
                 engineer 
                 firm 
                 history 
                 knowledge 
                 language 
                 life 
                 load 
                 museum 
                 paradigm 
                 rationale 
                 review 
                 specification 
                 studies 
                 studio 
                 technology
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Commons  
              Wikibooks  
              Wikinews  
              Wikiquote  
              Wikisource  
              Wiktionary 
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Interaction_design&amp;oldid=1060138915"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Human–computer interaction
       Design
       Technical communication
       Usability
       Multimodal interaction
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Use dmy dates from December 2020
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       עברית
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Svenska
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 13 December 2021, at 18:17&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
