
 
  
   
  Information literacy - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Information literacy 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Academic discipline
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           
            This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) 
             
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (December 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
                 
               
              
              
             
              
               
                
                 
                  
                 
                
                 
                  This article contains too many or overly lengthy quotations for an encyclopedic entry. Please help improve the article by presenting facts as a neutrally worded summary with appropriate citations. Consider transferring direct quotations to Wikiquote or, for entire works, to Wikisource. (December 2018)
                 
               
              
              
             
            (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      The Association of College &amp; Research Libraries defines information literacy as a "set of integrated abilities encompassing the reflective discovery of information, the understanding of how information is produced and valued and the use of information in creating new knowledge and participating ethically in communities of learning". 
      The 1989 American Library Association (ALA) Presidential Committee on Information Literacy formally defined information literacy (IL) as attributes of an individual, stating that "to be information literate, a person must be able to recognize when information is needed and have the ability to locate, evaluate and use effectively the needed information". In 1990, academic Lori Arp published a paper asking, "Are information literacy instruction and bibliographic instruction the same?" Arp argued that neither term was particularly well defined by theoreticians or practitioners in the field, further studies were needed to lessen the confusion and continue to articulate the parameters of the question. 
      The Alexandria Proclamation of 2005 defined the term as a human rights issue: "Information literacy empowers people in all walks of life to seek, evaluate, use and create information effectively to achieve their personal, social, occupational and educational goals. It is a basic human right in a digital world and promotes social inclusion in all nations." The United States National Forum on Information Literacy defined information literacy as "the ability to know when there is a need for information, to be able to identify, locate, evaluate, and effectively use that information for the issue or problem at hand". 
      A number of other efforts have been made to better define the concept and its relationship to other skills and forms of literacy. Other pedagogical outcomes related to information literacy include traditional literacy, computer literacy, research skills and critical thinking skills. Information literacy as a sub-discipline is an emerging topic of interest and counter measure among educators and librarians with the advent of misinformation, fake news, and disinformation. 
      Scholars have argued that, in order to maximize people's contributions to a democratic and pluralistic society, educators should be challenging governments and the business sector to support and fund educational initiatives in information literacy.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History of the concept 
        2 Presidential Committee on Information Literacy 
        3 National Forum on Information Literacy 
        4 Global 
          
          4.1 The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) 
          4.2 The International Alliance for Information Literacy (IAIL) 
          4.3 UNESCO Media and Information Literacy 
           
        5 Specific aspects 
        6 Information literacy skills 
          
          6.1 Big6 skills 
          6.2 Another conception 
            
            6.2.1 Category 1: Information literacy 
            6.2.2 Category 2: Independent learning 
            6.2.3 Category 3: Social responsibility 
             
           
        7 Effects on education 
        8 Education in the US 
          
          8.1 Standards 
          8.2 K–12 education restructuring 
          8.3 Efforts in K–12 education 
          8.4 Efforts in higher education 
          8.5 Distance education 
           
        9 Education in Singapore 
          
          9.1 Public education 
          9.2 Higher Education 
           
        10 Assessment 
        11 See also 
        12 References 
          
          12.1 Other sources 
           
        13 Further reading 
        14 External links 
        
       
      History of the concept 
      In a 1976 article in Library Journal, scholars were already beginning to discuss the difficult task and subtleties in defining the term. In that article, which has widely been cited since its publication, M.R. Owens stated that "information literacy differs from context to context. All  are created equal, but voters with information resources are in a position to make more intelligent decisions than citizens who are information illiterates. The application of information resources to the process of decision-making to fulfill civic responsibilities is a vital necessity. 
      In a literature review published in an academic journal in 2020, Oral Roberts University professor Angela Sample cited several conceptual waves of IL definitions since circa 1970. Some of those broad conceptual approaches included information literacy defined as a way of thinking; information literacy defined as a set of skills, information literacy defined as a social practice. These concept waves in the academic world led to the adoption of metaliteracy as a mechanism of IL concepts, and the creation of threshold concepts and knowledge dispositions, eventually leading to the creation of the ALA's Information Literacy Framework. 
      The phrase "information literacy" first appeared in print in a 1974 report written on behalf of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science by Paul G. Zurkowski, who was at the time president of the Software and Information Industry Association. Zurkowski used the phrase to describe the "techniques and skills" learned by the information literate "for utilizing the wide range of information tools as well as primary sources in molding information solutions to their problems" and drew a relatively firm line between the "literates" and "information illiterates". 
      The American Library Association's Presidential Committee on Information Literacy released a report on January 10, 1989, outlining the importance of information literacy, opportunities to develop information literacy, and an Information Age School. The report's final name is the Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report. The recommendations of the Committee led to the creation later that year of the National Forum on Information Literacy, a coalition of more than 90 national and international organizations. 
      In 1998, the American Association of School Librarians and the Association for Educational Communications and Technology published Information Power: Building Partnerships for Learning, which further established specific goals for information literacy education, defining some nine standards in the categories of "information literacy", "independent learning", and "social responsibility". 
      Also in 1998, the Presidential Committee on Information Literacy updated its final report. The report outlined six recommendations from the original report, and examined areas of challenge and progress. 
      In 1999, the Society of College, National and University Libraries (SCONUL) in the UK, published "The Seven Pillars of Information Literacy" model to "facilitate further development of ideas amongst practitioners in the field ... stimulate debate about the ideas and about how those ideas might be used by library and other staff in higher education concerned with the development of students' skills". A number of other countries have developed information literacy standards since then. 
      In 2003, the National Forum on Information Literacy, together with UNESCO and the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science, sponsored an international conference in Prague with representatives from twenty-three countries to discuss the importance of information literacy within a global context. The resulting Prague Declaration described information literacy as a "key to social, cultural, and economic development of nations and communities, institutions and individuals in the 21st century" and declared its acquisition as "part of the basic human right of lifelong learning". 
      In the United States, IL was made a priority during President Barack Obama's first term, who designated October as National Information Literacy Awareness Month.  
      Presidential Committee on Information Literacy 
      The American Library Association's Presidential Committee on Information Literacy defined information literacy as the ability "to recognize when information is needed and have the ability to locate, evaluate, and use effectively the needed information" and highlighted information literacy as a skill essential for lifelong learning and the production of an informed and prosperous citizenry. 
      The committee outlined six principal recommendations. Included were recommendations like "Reconsider the ways we have organized information institutionally, structured information access, and defined information's role in our lives at home in the community, and in the work place"; to promote "public awareness of the problems created by information illiteracy"; to develop a national research agenda related to information and its use; to ensure the existence of "a climate conducive to students' becoming information literate"; to include information literacy concerns in teacher education democracy. 
      In the updated report, the committee ended with an invitation, asking the National Forum and regular citizens to recognize that "the result of these combined efforts will be a citizenry which is made up of effective lifelong learners who can always find the information needed for the issue or decision at hand. This new generation of information literate citizens will truly be America's most valuable resource", and to continue working toward an information literate world. 
      The Presidential Committee on Information Literacy resulted in the creation of the National Forum on Information Literacy.  
      National Forum on Information Literacy 
      In 1983, United States published "A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform", a report declaring that a "rising tide of mediocrity" was eroding the foundation of the American educational system. The report has been regarded as the genesis of the current educational reform movement within the United States. 
      This report, in conjunction with the rapid emergence of the information society, led the American Library Association (ALA) to convene a panel of educators and librarians in 1987. The Forum, UNESCO and International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) collaborated to organize several "experts meetings" that resulted in the Prague Declaration (2003) and the Alexandria Proclamation (2005). Both statements underscore the importance of information literacy as a basic, fundamental human right, and consider IL as a lifelong learning skill.  
      Global 
      The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) 
      
      
       Main article: International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions
       
      IFLA has established an Information Literacy Section. The Section has, in turn, developed and mounted an Information Literacy Resources Directory, called InfoLit Global. Librarians, educators and information professionals may self-register and upload information-literacy-related materials (IFLA, Information Literacy Section, n.d.) According to the IFLA website, "The primary purpose of the Information Literacy Section is to foster international cooperation in the development of information literacy education in all types of libraries and information institutions."  
      The International Alliance for Information Literacy (IAIL) 
      This alliance was created from the recommendation of the Prague Conference of Information Literacy Experts in 2003. One of its goals is to allow for the sharing of information literacy research and knowledge between nations. The IAIL also sees "lifelong learning" as a basic human right, and their ultimate goal is to use information literacy as a way to allow everyone to participate in the "Information Society" as a way of fulfilling this right. The following organizations are founding members of IAIL:  
      
       Australian and New Zealand Institute for Information Literacy (ANZIIL), based in Australia and New Zealand 
       European Network on Information Literacy (EnIL), based in the European Union 
       National Forum on Information Literacy (NFIL), based in the United States 
       NORDINFOlit, based in Scandinavia 
       SCONUL (Society of College, National and University Libraries) Advisory Committee on Information Literacy, based in the United Kingdom
       
      UNESCO Media and Information Literacy 
      According to the UNESCO website, this is their "action to provide people with the skills and abilities for critical reception, assessment and use of information and media in their professional and personal lives". Their goal is to create information literate societies by creating and maintaining educational policies for information literacy. They work with teachers around the world, training them in the importance of information literacy and providing resources for them to use in their classrooms. 
      UNESCO publishes studies on information literacy in many countries, looking at how information literacy is currently taught, how it differs in different demographics, and how to raise awareness. They also publish pedagogical tools and curricula for school boards and teachers to refer to and use.  
      Specific aspects 
      In "Information Literacy as a Liberal Art", Jeremy J. Shapiro and Shelley K. Hughes (1996) advocated a more holistic approach to information literacy education, one that encouraged not merely the addition of information technology courses as an adjunct to existing curricula, but rather a radically new conceptualization of "our entire educational curriculum in terms of information". 
      Drawing upon Enlightenment ideals like those articulated by Enlightenment philosopher Condorcet, Shapiro and Hughes argued that information literacy education is "essential to the future of democracy, if citizens are to be intelligent shapers of the information society rather than its pawns, and to humanistic culture, if information is to be part of a meaningful existence rather than a routine of production and consumption". 
      To this end, Shapiro and Hughes outlined a "prototype curriculum" that encompassed the concepts of computer literacy, library skills, and "a broader, critical conception of a more humanistic sort", suggesting seven important components of a holistic approach to information literacy:  
      
       Tool literacy, or the ability to understand and use the practical and conceptual tools of current information technology relevant to education and the areas of work and professional life that the individual expects to inhabit. 
       Resource literacy, or the ability to understand the form, format, location and access methods of information resources, especially daily expanding networked information resources. 
       Social-structural literacy, or understanding how information is socially situated and produced. 
       Research literacy, or the ability to understand and use the IT-based tools relevant to the work of today's researcher and scholar. 
       Publishing literacy, or the ability to format and publish research and ideas electronically, in textual and multimedia forms ... to introduce them into the electronic public realm and the electronic community of scholars. 
       Emerging technology literacy, or the ability to continuously adapt to, understand, evaluate and make use of the continually emerging innovations in information technology so as not to be a prisoner of prior tools and resources, and to make intelligent decisions about the adoption of new ones. 
       Critical literacy, or the ability to evaluate critically the intellectual, human and social strengths and weaknesses, potentials and limits, benefits and costs of information technologies.
       
      Ira Shor further defines critical literacy as " of thought, reading, writing, and speaking which go beneath surface meaning, first impressions, dominant myths, official pronouncements, traditional clichés, received wisdom, and mere opinions, to understand the deep meaning, root causes, social context, ideology, and personal consequences of any action, event, object, process, organization, experience, text, subject matter, policy, mass media, or discourse".  
      Information literacy skills 
      
      
       See also: CRAAP test
       
      Big6 skills 
      The Big6 skills have been used in a variety of settings to help those with a variety of needs. For example, the library of Dubai Women's College, in Dubai, United Arab Emirates which is an English as a second language institution, uses the Big6 model for its information literacy workshops. According to Story-Huffman (2009), using Big6 at the college "has transcended cultural and physical boundaries to provide a knowledge base to help students become information literate" (para. 8). In primary grades, Big6 has been found to work well with variety of cognitive and language levels found in the classroom.  
      
      
       Differentiated instruction and the Big6 appear to be made for each other. While it seems as though all children will be on the same Big6 step at the same time during a unit of instruction, there is no reason students cannot work through steps at an individual pace. In addition, the Big 6 process allows for seamless differentiation by interest.
       
      Issues to consider in the Big6 approach have been highlighted by Philip Doty:  
      
      
       This approach is problem-based, is designed to fit into the context of Benjamin Bloom's taxonomy of cognitive objectives, and aims toward the development of critical thinking. While the Big6 approach has a great deal of power, it also has serious weaknesses. Chief among these are the fact that users often lack well-formed statements of information needs, as well as the model's reliance on problem-solving rhetoric. Often, the need for information and its use are situated in circumstances that are not as well-defined, discrete, and monolithic as problems.
       
      Eisenberg (2004) has recognized that there are a number of challenges to effectively applying the Big6 skills, not the least of which is information overload which can overwhelm students. Part of Eisenberg's solution is for schools to help students become discriminating users of information.  
      Another conception 
      This conception, used primarily in the library and information studies field, and rooted in the concepts of library instruction and bibliographic instruction, is the ability "to recognize when information is needed and have the ability to locate, evaluate and use effectively the needed information". In this view, information literacy is the basis for lifelong learning. It is also the basis for evaluating contemporary sources of information. 
      In the publication Information Power: Building Partnerships for Learning (AASL and AECT, 1998), three categories, nine standards, and twenty-nine indicators are used to describe the information literate student. 
      The categories and their standards are as follows:  
      Category 1: Information literacy 
      Standards: The student who is information literate  
      
       accesses information efficiently and effectively. 
       evaluates information critically and competently. 
       uses information accurately and creatively.
       
      Category 2: Independent learning 
      Standards: The student who is an independent learner is information literate and  
      
       pursues information related to personal interests. 
       appreciates literature and other creative expressions of information. 
       strives for excellence in information seeking and knowledge generation.
       
      Category 3: Social responsibility 
      Standards: The student who contributes positively to the learning community and to society is information literate and  
      
       recognizes the importance of information to a democratic society. 
       practices ethical behavior in regard to information and information technology. 
       participates effectively in groups to pursue and generate information.
       
      Since information may be presented in a number of formats, the term "information" applies to more than just the printed word. Other literacies such as visual, media, computer, network, and basic literacies are implicit in information literacy. 
      Many of those who are in most need of information literacy are often amongst those least able to access the information they require:  
      
      
       Minority and at-risk students, illiterate adults, people with English as a second language, and economically disadvantaged people are among those most likely to lack access to the information that can improve their situations. Most are not even aware of the potential help that is available to them.
       
      As the Presidential Committee report points out, members of these disadvantaged groups are often unaware that libraries can provide them with the access, training and information they need. In Osborne (2004), many libraries around the country are finding numerous ways to reach many of these disadvantaged groups by discovering their needs in their own environments (including prisons) and offering them specific services in the libraries themselves.  
      Effects on education 
      The rapidly evolving information landscape has demonstrated a need for education methods and practices to evolve and adapt accordingly. Information literacy is a key focus of educational institutions at all levels and in order to uphold this standard, institutions are promoting a commitment to lifelong learning and an ability to seek out and identify innovations that will be needed to keep pace with or outpace changes. 
      Educational methods and practices, within our increasingly information-centric society, must facilitate and enhance a student's ability to harness the power of information. Key to harnessing the power of information is the ability to evaluate information, to ascertain among other things its relevance, authenticity and modernity. The information evaluation process is crucial life skill and a basis for lifelong learning. According to Lankshear and Knobel, what is needed in our education system is a new understanding of literacy, information literacy and on literacy teaching. Educators need to learn to account for the context of our culturally and linguistically diverse and increasingly globalized societies. We also need to take account of the burgeoning variety of text forms associated with information and multimedia technologies. 
      Evaluation consists of several component processes including metacognition, goals, personal disposition, cognitive development, deliberation, and decision-making. This is both a difficult and complex challenge and underscores the importance of being able to think critically. 
      Critical thinking is an important educational outcome for students. Education institutions have experimented with several strategies to help foster critical thinking, as a means to enhance information evaluation and information literacy among students. When evaluating evidence, students should be encouraged to practice formal argumentation. Debates and formal presentations must also be encouraged to analyze and critically evaluate information. 
      Education professionals must underscore the importance of high information quality. Students must be trained to distinguish between fact and opinion. They must be encouraged to use cue words such as "I think" and "I feel" to help distinguish between factual information and opinions. Information related skills that are complex or difficult to comprehend must be broken down into smaller parts. Another approach would be to train students in familiar contexts. Education professionals should encourage students to examine "causes" of behaviors, actions and events. Research shows that people evaluate more effectively if causes are revealed, where available. 
      Information in any format is produced to convey a message and is shared via a selected delivery method. The iterative processes of researching, creating, revising, and disseminating information vary, and the resulting product reflects these differences (Association of College, p.&nbsp;5). 
      Some call for increased critical analysis in Information Literacy instruction. Smith (2013) identifies this as beneficial "to individuals, particularly young people during their period of formal education. It could equip them with the skills they need to understand the political system and their place within it, and, where necessary, to challenge this" (p.&nbsp;16).  
      Education in the US 
      Standards 
      National content standards, state standards, and information literacy skills terminology may vary, but all have common components relating to information literacy. 
      Information literacy skills are critical to several of the National Education Goals outlined in the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, particularly in the act's aims to increase "school readiness", "student achievement and citizenship", and "adult literacy and lifelong learning". Of specific relevance are the "focus on lifelong learning, the ability to think critically, and on the use of new and existing information for problem solving", all of which are important components of information literacy. 
      In 1998, the American Association of School Librarians and the Association for Educational Communications and Technology published "Information Literacy Standards for Student Learning", which identified nine standards that librarians and teachers in K–12 schools could use to describe information literate students and define the relationship of information literacy to independent learning and social responsibility:  
      
       Standard One: The student who is information literate accesses information efficiently and effectively. 
       Standard Two: The student who is information literate evaluates information critically and competently. 
       Standard Three: The student who is information literate uses information accurately and creatively. 
       Standard Four: The student who is an independent learner is information literate and pursues information related to personal interests. 
       Standard Five: The student who is an independent learner is information literate and appreciates literature and other creative expressions of information. 
       Standard Six: The student who is an independent learner is information literate and strives for excellence in information seeking and knowledge generation. 
       Standard Seven: The student who contributes positively to the learning community and to society is information literate and recognizes the importance of information to a democratic society. 
       Standard Eight: The student who contributes positively to the learning community and to society is information literate and practices ethical behavior in regard to information and information technology. 
       Standard Nine: The student who contributes positively to the learning community and to society is information literate and participates effectively in groups to pursue and generate information.
       
      In 2007 AASL expanded and restructured the standards that school librarians should strive for in their teaching. These were published as "Standards for the 21st Century Learner" and address several literacies: information, technology, visual, textual, and digital. These aspects of literacy were organized within four key goals: that "learners use of skills, resources, &amp; tools" to "inquire, think critically, and gain knowledge"; to "draw conclusions, make informed decisions, apply knowledge to new situations, and create new knowledge"; to "share knowledge and participate ethically and productively as members of our democratic society"; and to "pursue personal and aesthetic growth". 
      In 2000, the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL), a division of the American Library Association (ALA), released "Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education", describing five standards and numerous performance indicators considered best practices for the implementation and assessment of postsecondary information literacy programs. The five standards are:  
      
       Standard One: The information literate student determines the nature and extent of the information needed. 
       Standard Two: The information literate student accesses needed information effectively and efficiently. 
       Standard Three: The information literate student evaluates information and its sources critically and incorporates selected information into his or her knowledge base and value system. 
       Standard Four: The information literate student, individually or as a member of a group, uses information effectively to accomplish a specific purpose. 
       Standard Five: The information literate student understands many of the economic, legal, and social issues surrounding the use of information and accesses and uses information ethically and legally.
       
      These standards were meant to span from the simple to more complicated, or in terms of Bloom's Taxonomy of Educational Objectives, from the "lower order" to the "higher order". Lower order skills would involve for instance being able to use an online catalog to find a book relevant to an information need in an academic library. Higher order skills would involve critically evaluating and synthesizing information from multiple sources into a coherent interpretation or argument. 
      In 2016, the Association of College and Research Librarians (ACRL) rescinded the Standards and replaced them with the Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education, which offers the following set of core ideas:  
      
       Authority is constructed and contextual 
       Information creation as a process 
       Information has value 
       Research as inquiry 
       Scholarship as conversation 
       Searching as strategic exploration
       
      The Framework is based on a cluster of interconnected core concepts, with flexible options for implementation, rather than on a set of standards or learning outcomes, or any prescriptive enumeration of skills. At th e heart of this Framework are conceptual understandings that organize many other concepts and ideas about information, research, and scholarship into a coherent whole.  
      K–12 education restructuring 
      Today instruction methods have changed drastically from the mostly one-directional teacher-student model, to a more collaborative approach where the students themselves feel empowered. Much of this challenge is now being informed by the American Association of School Librarians that published new standards for student learning in 2007. 
      Within the K–12 environment, effective curriculum development is vital to imparting Information Literacy skills to students. Given the already heavy load on students, efforts must be made to avoid curriculum overload. Eisenberg strongly recommends adopting a collaborative approach to curriculum development among classroom teachers, librarians, technology teachers, and other educators. Staff must be encouraged to work together to analyze student curriculum needs, develop a broad instruction plan, set information literacy goals, and design specific unit and lesson plans that integrate the information skills and classroom content. These educators can also collaborate on teaching and assessment duties 
      Educators are selecting various forms of resource-based learning (authentic learning, problem-based learning and work-based learning) to help students focus on the process and to help students learn from the content. Information literacy skills are necessary components of each. Within a school setting, it is very important that a students' specific needs as well as the situational context be kept in mind when selecting topics for integrated information literacy skills instruction. The primary goal should be to provide frequent opportunities for students to learn and practice information problem solving. To this extent, it is also vital to facilitate repetition of information seeking actions and behavior. The importance of repetition in information literacy lesson plans cannot be underscored, since we tend to learn through repetition. A students' proficiency will improve over time if they are afforded regular opportunities to learn and to apply the skills they have learnt. 
      The process approach to education is requiring new forms of student assessment. Students demonstrate their skills, assess their own learning, and evaluate the processes by which this learning has been achieved by preparing portfolios, learning and research logs, and using rubrics.  
      Efforts in K–12 education 
      Information literacy efforts are underway on individual, local, and regional bases. 
      Many states have either fully adopted AASL information literacy standards or have adapted them to suit their needs. States such as Oregon (OSLIS, 2009) increasing rely on these guidelines for curriculum development and setting information literacy goals. Virginia, on the other hand, chose to undertake a comprehensive review, involving all relevant stakeholders and formulate its own guidelines and standards for information literacy. At an international level, two framework documents jointly produced by UNESCO and the IFLA (International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions) developed two framework documents that laid the foundations in helping define the educational role to be played by school libraries: the School library manifesto (1999),. 
      Another immensely popular approach to imparting information literacy is the Big6 set of skills. Eisenberg claims that the Big6 is the most widely used model in K–12 education. This set of skills seeks to articulate the entire information seeking life cycle. The Big6 is made up of six major stages and two sub-stages under each major stages. It defines the six steps as being: task definition, information seeking strategies, location and access, use of information, synthesis, and evaluation. Such approaches seek to cover the full range of information problem-solving actions that a person would normally undertake, when faced with an information problem or with making a decision based on available resources.  
      Efforts in higher education 
      Information literacy instruction in higher education can take a variety of forms: stand-alone courses or classes, online tutorials, workbooks, course-related instruction, or course-integrated instruction. One attempt in the area of physics was published in 2009. 
      The six regional accreditation boards have added information literacy to their standards. Librarians often are required to teach the concepts of information literacy during "one shot" classroom lectures. There are also credit courses offered by academic librarians to prepare college students to become information literate. 
      In 2016, the Association of College &amp; Research Libraries (ACRL, part of the American Library Association) adopted a new "Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education", replacing the ACRL's "Information Literacy Standards for Higher Education" that had been approved in 2000. The standards were largely criticized by proponents of critical information literacy, a concept deriving from critical pedagogy, for being too prescriptive. It's termed a "framework" because it consists of interconnected core concepts designed to be interpreted and implemented locally depending on the context and needs of the audience. The framework draws on recent research around threshold concepts, or the ideas that are gateways to broader understanding or skills in a given discipline. It also draws on newer research around metaliteracy, and assumes a more holistic view of information literacy that includes creation and collaboration in addition to consumption, so is appropriate for current practices around social media and Web 2.0. The six concepts, or frames, are:  
      
       Authority is constructed and contextual 
       Information creation as a process 
       Information has value 
       Research as inquiry 
       Scholarship as conversation 
       Searching as strategic exploration
       
      This draws from the concept of metaliteracy, which offers a renewed vision of information literacy as an overarching set of abilities in which students are consumers and creators of information who can participate successfully in collaborative spaces (Association of College, p.&nbsp;2) There is a growing body of scholarly research describing faculty-librarian collaboration to bring information literacy skills practice into higher education curriculum, moving beyond "one shot" lectures to an integrated model in which librarians help design assignments, create guides to useful course resources, and provide direct support to students throughout courses. A recent literature review indicates that there is still a lack of evidence concerning the unique information literacy practices of doctoral students, especially within disciplines such as the health sciences.  
      Distance education 
      
      
       Main article: Distance education
       
      Now that information literacy has become a part of the core curriculum at many post-secondary institutions, the library community is charged to provide information literacy instruction in a variety of formats, including online learning and distance education. The Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) addresses this need in its Guidelines for Distance Education Services (2000):  
      
      
       Library resources and services in institutions of higher education must meet the needs of all their faculty, students, and academic support staff, wherever these individuals are located, whether on a main campus, off campus, in distance education or extended campus programs—or in the absence of a campus at all, in courses taken for credit or non-credit; in continuing education programs; in courses attended in person or by means of electronic transmission; or any other means of distance education.
       
      Within the e-learning and distance education worlds, providing effective information literacy programs brings together the challenges of both distance librarianship and instruction. With the prevalence of course management systems such as WebCT and Blackboard, library staff are embedding information literacy training within academic programs and within individual classes themselves.  
      Education in Singapore 
      Public education 
      In October 2013, The National Library of Singapore (NLB) created the S.U.R.E, (Source, Understand, Research, Evaluate) campaign. The objectives and strategies of the S.U.R.E. campaign were first presented at the 2014 IFLA WLIC. It is summarised by NLB as simplifying information literacy into four basic building blocks, to "promote and educate the importance of Information Literacy and discernment in informations searching". 
      Public events furthering the S.U.R.E. campaign were organised 2015. This was called the "Super S.U.R.E. Show" involving speakers to engage the public with their anecdotes and other learning points, for example the ability to separate fact from opinion.  
      Higher Education 
      Information literacy is taught by librarians at institutes of higher education. Some components of information literacy are embedded in the undergraduate curriculum at the National University of Singapore.  
      Assessment 
      Many academic libraries are participating in a culture of assessment, and attempt to show the value of their information literacy interventions to their students. Librarians use a variety of techniques for this assessment, some of which aim to empower students and librarians and resist adherence to unquestioned norms. Oakleaf describes the benefits and dangers of various assessment approaches: fixed-choice tests, performance assessments, and rubrics.  
      See also 
      
       
       
        Criteria of truth&nbsp;– Standards and rules used to judge the accuracy of statements and claims 
        Epistemology&nbsp;– Branch of philosophy concerning knowledge 
        Information literacies&nbsp;– Multiple literacies individuals may need to function effectively in the global information society 
        Methodology&nbsp;– Coherent and logical theoretical analysis of the methods applied to a field of study 
        Project Information Literacy 
        Scholarly method&nbsp;– Body of principles and practices used by scholars and academics to make their claims 
        Scientific method&nbsp;– Interplay between observation, experiment and theory in science 
        Source criticism&nbsp;– Process of evaluating an information source 
        Textual criticism&nbsp;– Identifying variants of historical texts
        
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Association of College &amp; Research Libraries, 2016, p. 8. Framework for Information Literacy, retrieved from http://www.ala.org/acrl/sites/ala.org.acrl/files/content/issues/infolit/framework1.pdf  
         ^ Information Literacy Defined, alternate definition - In the Library with the Lead Pipe. Retrieved from http://inthelibrarywiththeleadpipe.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/Information-Literacy-Definitions.doc  
         ^ Tilvawala, Khushbu; Myers, Michael D.; Andrade, Antonio Díaz (2009). "Information Literacy in Kenya". The Electronic Journal of Information Systems in Developing Countries. 39 (1): 1–11. doi:10.1002/j.1681-4835.2009.tb00275.x. hdl:10292/1067. ISSN&nbsp;1681-4835. S2CID&nbsp;167815354.  
         ^ 
           Gregory, Lua (2017). "Critical Information Literacy in Practice: A Bibliographic Review Essay of Critical Information Literacy, Critical Library Pedagogy Handbook, and Critical Literacy for Information Professionals". Communications in Information Literacy. 11 (2): 390–403. doi:10.15760/comminfolit.2017.11.2.10. ISSN&nbsp;1933-5954.  
         ^ American Library Association, 1989  
         ^ 
           Stern, Caroline; Kaur, Trishanjit (2010-06-01). "Developing theory-based, practical information literacy training for adults". International Information &amp; Library Review. 42 (2): 69–74. doi:10.1080/10572317.2010.10762847. ISSN&nbsp;1057-2317. S2CID&nbsp;204328564.  
         ^ a b 
           Arp, Lori (1990). "Information literacy or bibliographic instruction: semantics or philosophy". RQ. 30 (1). 
            Gale&nbsp;A9005442.  
         ^ Alexandria Proclamation on Information Literacy and Lifelong Learning, 2005. Information literacy. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Retrieved from http://www.unesco.org/new/en/communication-and-information/access-to-knowledge/information-literacy  
         ^ a b 
           "What is the NFIL?". National Forum on Information Literacy. Archived from the original on 2012-01-16. Retrieved October 25, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report". January 10, 1989. Archived from the original on 2012-11-13. Retrieved Oct 25, 2012.  
         ^ 
           McTavish, Marianne (April 2009). "'I get my facts from the Internet': A case study of the teaching and learning of information literacy in in-school and out-of-school contexts". Journal of Early Childhood Literacy. 9 (1): 3–28. doi:10.1177/1468798408101104. S2CID&nbsp;145479698.  
         ^ 
           Behrens, Shirley J. (1 July 1994). "A Conceptual Analysis and Historical Overview of Information Literacy". College &amp; Research Libraries. 55 (4): 309–322. doi:10.5860/crl_55_04_309.  
         ^ a b 
           Addison, Colleen; Meyers, Eric (September 2013). "Perspectives on Information Literacy: A Framework for Conceptual Understanding". Information Research: An International Electronic Journal. 18 (3). 
            ERIC&nbsp;EJ1044643.  
         ^ a b 
           Sample, Angela (March 2020). "Historical development of definitions of information literacy: A literature review of selected resources". The Journal of Academic Librarianship. 46 (2): 102116. doi:10.1016/j.acalib.2020.102116. S2CID&nbsp;212619489.  
         ^ IFLA, http://eprints.um.edu.my/2035/1/IFLA.DOC  
         ^ 
           Zurkowski, Paul G. (November 1974). The Information Service Environment Relationships and Priorities. Related Paper No. 5 (Report). 
            ERIC&nbsp;ED100391.  
         ^ a b 
           "Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report". 10 Jan 1989. Archived from the original on 2016-04-26. Retrieved May 1, 2016.  
         ^ a b 
           "Information Literacy Standards for Student Learning" (PDF). American Association of School Librarians and the Association for Educational Communications and Technology. 1998. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 26, 2009. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "A Progress Report on Information Literacy: An Update on the American Library Association Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report". March 1998. Archived from the original on 2013-11-19. Retrieved 2013-12-15.  
         ^ 
           Moira Bent (November 2007). "The Seven Pillars of Information Literacy Original model". SCONUL. Archived from the original on 2007-10-28. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "The Prague Declaration – 'Toward an Information Literate Society'" (PDF). Information Literacy Meeting of Experts. September 2003. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           Barack Obama (2009). "National Information Literacy Awareness Month" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 21, 2012. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report". ACRL. January 10, 1989. Archived from the original on 2011-12-01. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Link text". 2006-09-06. Archived from the original on 2011-08-29. Retrieved 2011-10-23.  
         ^ 
           "About the Information Literacy Section". 16 August 2014. Archived from the original on 2012-06-08. Retrieved 6 November 2014.  
         ^ 
           "International Alliance". The National Forum of Information Literacy. Archived from the original on 2012-01-04. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           Doskatsch, Irene (January 2002). "Australian and New Zealand Institute for Information Literacy (ANZIIL): New Body to Champion Information Literacy". Australian Academic &amp; Research Libraries. 33 (2): 113–116. doi:10.1080/00048623.2002.10755187.  
         ^ 
           "EnIL – European Network on Information Literacy". enil.ceris.cnr.it. Retrieved 2020-09-26.  
         ^ 
           Weiner, Sharon A.; Jackman, Lana W. (March 2010). "The National Forum on Information Literacy, Inc". College &amp; Undergraduate Libraries. 17 (1): 114–120. doi:10.1080/10691310903584734. S2CID&nbsp;218574374.  
         ^ 
           "NORDINFOlit". www.nordinfolit.info. Retrieved 2020-09-26.  
         ^ 
           "Working group on Information literacy". www.sconul.ac.uk. Archived from the original on 2012-02-17. Retrieved 2020-09-26.  
         ^ 
           "Media and Information Literacy". UNESCO. Archived from the original on May 13, 2016. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Media and Information Literacy: Documents". UNESCO. Archived from the original on May 13, 2016. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           Shapiro, Jeremy J.; Hughes, Shelley K. (1996). "Information Literacy as a Liberal Art". Educom Review. 31 (2).  
         ^ 
           Shor, Ira (1 January 1999). "What is Critical Literacy?". Journal of Pedagogy, Pluralism, and Practice. 1 (4): 2.  
         ^ Jansen, 2009, p.32.  
         ^ Doty, 2003.  
         ^ Presidential Committee on Information Literacy. 1989, p.&nbsp;1.  
         ^ AASL and AECT, 1998.  
         ^ Presidential Committee on Information Literacy. 1989, para. 7.  
         ^ a b c 
           Eisenberg, B. M., Lowe, C., &amp; Spitzer, K. (2004). Information Literacy: Essential Skills for the Information Age (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Libraries Unlimited.}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
         ^ a b 
           Fitzgerald, M. A. "Evaluating information: An information literacy challenge". School Library Media Research, 2. Archived from the original on May 29, 2010. Retrieved October 28, 2012.  
         ^ 
           Lankshear, C; Knobel, M. (2003). New Literacies: Changing Knowledge and Classroom Learning. Buckingham: Open University Press.  
         ^ 
           Kuhn, D (1991). The Skills of Argument. New York: Cambridge University Press. p.&nbsp;.  
         ^ 
           Smith, Lauren (24 November 2013). "Towards a model of critical information literacy instruction for the development of political agency". Journal of Information Literacy. 7 (2). doi:10.11645/7.2.1809.  
         ^ 
           "GOALS 2000: Educate America Act". Ed.gov. January 25, 1994. Archived from the original on 2013-01-28. Retrieved February 3, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Information Literacy. ERIC Digest". Ericdigests.org. October 20, 1988. Archived from the original on November 28, 2012. Retrieved February 3, 2013.  
         ^ 
           "Standards for the 21st Century Learner" (PDF). American Association of School Librarians. 2007. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-06-30.  
         ^ 
           "Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education". January 2000. Retrieved 2020-09-26. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           "Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education" (PDF). Association of College and Research Libraries. January 2000. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-11-22.  
         ^ 
           Section, edited by Jesús Lau&nbsp;; IFLA Information Literacy (2008). Information literacy&nbsp;: international perspectives (2008.&nbsp;ed.). München: K.G. Saur. p.&nbsp;23. ISBN&nbsp;978-3598220371. }: |first= has generic name (help)  
         ^ 
           Thomas, Nancy Pickering; Crow, Sherry R.; Franklin, Lori L. (2011). Information literacy and information skills instruction&nbsp;: applying research to practice in the 21st century school. California: ABC-CLIO, LLC. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59884-491-7.  
         ^ 
           "Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education". Association of College and Research Libraries. January 2016. Archived from the original on 2016-07-28. Retrieved 2016-08-01.  
         ^ a b c 
           Eisenberg, Michael B. (1 March 2008). "Information Literacy: Essential Skills for the Information Age". DESIDOC Journal of Library &amp; Information Technology. 28 (2): 39–47. doi:10.14429/djlit.28.2.166.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". old.oslis.org. Archived from the original on 28 May 2010. Retrieved 13 January 2022.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           Blake, P (2006). "Restructuring Relationships in Virginia: The Changing Compact between Higher Education Institutions and the State". Change: The Magazine of Higher Learning. 38 (1): 26–33. doi:10.3200/CHNG.38.1.26-33. S2CID&nbsp;144400496.  
         ^ 
           Endrizzi, L. (April 2006). "Information Literacy". Lettre d'information n° 17. Institut Français de l'Éducation. Archived from the original on 2015-06-23. Retrieved February 2, 2013.  
         ^ 
           Miller, Casey W.; Chabot, Michelle D.; Messina, Troy C. (December 2009). "A student's guide to searching the literature using online databases". American Journal of Physics. 77 (12): 1112–1117. arXiv:1003.0931. Bibcode:2009AmJPh..77.1112M. doi:10.1119/1.3213525. S2CID&nbsp;3105113.  
         ^ 
           "Accreditation | Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL)". Ala.org. Archived from the original on 2011-10-01. Retrieved February 3, 2013.  
         ^ 
           DMUELLER (2015-02-09). "Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education". Association of College &amp; Research Libraries (ACRL). Archived from the original on 2016-12-02. Retrieved 2016-12-11.  
         ^ 
           Tewell, Eamon (2015). "A Decade of Critical Information Literacy: A Review of the Literature". Communications in Information Literacy. 9 (1): 24. doi:10.15760/comminfolit.2015.9.1.174.  
         ^ 
           Meyer, Jan; Land, Ray; Smith, Jan, eds. (2008). Threshold concepts within the disciplines. Rotterdam: Sense Publishers. ISBN&nbsp;9789087902674.  
         ^ a b 
           Mackey, Thomas P.; Jacobson, Trudi E. (January 2011). "Reframing Information Literacy as a Metaliteracy". College &amp; Research Libraries. 72 (1): 62–78. doi:10.5860/crl-76r1.  
         ^ 
           Mounce, Michael (4 October 2010). "Working Together: Academic Librarians and Faculty Collaborating to Improve Students' Information Literacy Skills: A Literature Review 2000–2009". The Reference Librarian. 51 (4): 300–320. doi:10.1080/02763877.2010.501420. S2CID&nbsp;62649997.  
         ^ 
           Junisbai, Barbara; Lowe, M. Sara; Tagge, Natalie (September 2016). "A Pragmatic and Flexible Approach to Information Literacy: Findings from a Three-Year Study of Faculty-Librarian Collaboration". The Journal of Academic Librarianship. 42 (5): 604–611. doi:10.1016/j.acalib.2016.07.001. hdl:1805/11510.  
         ^ 
           Hoberecht, Toni; Randall, Ken; Schweikhard, April J. (30 April 2015). "Library Tutorials in an Allied Health Evidence-Based Practice Class". Medical Reference Services Quarterly. 34 (2): 240–248. doi:10.1080/02763869.2015.1019765. PMID&nbsp;25927516. S2CID&nbsp;9593576.  
         ^ 
           Fogleman, Jay; Niedbala, Mona Anne; Bedell, Francesca (April 2013). "Writing and Publishing in a Blended Learning Environment to Develop Students' Scholarly Digital Ethos". Behavioral &amp; Social Sciences Librarian. 32 (2): 71–85. doi:10.1080/01639269.2013.787251. S2CID&nbsp;62632376.  
         ^ 
           Lampert, Lynn (27 April 2005). "'Getting Psyched' About Information Literacy: A Successful Faculty-Librarian Collaboration for Educational Psychology and Counseling". The Reference Librarian. 43 (89–90): 5–23. doi:10.1300/J120v43n89_02. S2CID&nbsp;143795780.  
         ^ 
           Kobzina, Norma G. (20 April 2010). "A Faculty–Librarian Partnership: A Unique Opportunity for Course Integration". Journal of Library Administration. 50 (4): 293–314. doi:10.1080/01930821003666965. S2CID&nbsp;62701369.  
         ^ 
           Nylander, Elisabeth; Hjort, Margareta (2020-03-12). "Information Literacies of PhD Students in the Health Sciences: A Review of Scholarly Articles (2009 - 2018)". Evidence Based Library and Information Practice. 15 (1): 142–158. doi:10.18438/eblip29630. ISSN&nbsp;1715-720X.  
         ^ 
           Presti, Patricia (2002). "Incorporating information literacy and distance learning within a course management system: a case study" (PDF). Loex News. 29 (2–3): 3, 12–13. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 8, 2004.  
         ^ 
           "S.U.R.E.: The National Information Literacy Programme". Base. Retrieved 2020-07-11.  
         ^ 
           "The S.U.R.E. Story (Part 1): Promoting Information Literacy to Singaporeans". Singapore Libraries Bulletin. 2016-08-22. Retrieved 2020-07-11.  
         ^ 
           "YouTube". www.youtube.com. Retrieved 2020-07-11.  
         ^ 
           "SUPER S.U.R.E. SHOW: Music &amp; Pop Culture". Honeycombers Singapore. Retrieved 2020-07-11.  
         ^ 
           "The Embedded Librarian(s) at the National University of Singapore: The Journey Continues". Singapore Journal of Library and Information Management. 2019-09-22. Retrieved 2020-07-11.  
         ^ 
           Accardi, Maria T. (2010). "Teaching against the grain: Critical assessment in the library classroom". In Accardi, Maria T.; Drabinski, Emily; Kumbier, Alana (eds.). Critical library instruction theories and methods. Duluth, Minn.: Library Juice Press. pp.&nbsp;251–264. ISBN&nbsp;9781936117406.  
        
       
       
      Other sources 
      
       
       
        Prague Declaration: "Towards an Information Literate Society" 
        Alexandria Proclamation: A High Level International Colloquium on Information Literacy and Lifelong Learning 
        2006 Information Literacy Summit: American Competitiveness in the Internet Age 
        1989 Presidential Committee on Information Literacy: Final Report 
        1983 A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform 
        Gibson, C. (2004). Information literacy develops globally: The role of the national forum on information literacy. Knowledge Quest. 
        Breivik P.S. and Gee, E.G. (2006). Higher Education in the Internet Age: Libraries Creating a Strategic Edge. Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing.
        
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        Association of College and Research Libraries (2016). Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education. 
        Association of College Research Libraries (2007). The First-Year Experience and Academic Libraries: A Select, Annotated Bibliography. Retrieved April 20, 2008. 
        Barner, R. (1996, March/April). Seven changes that will challenge managers-and workers. The Futurist, 30 (2), 14–18. 
        Breivik. P. S., &amp; Senn, J. A. (1998). Information literacy: Educating children for the 21st century. (2nd ed.). Washington, DC: National Education Association. 
        Bruch, C &amp; Wilkinson, C.W. (2012). Surveying Terrain, Clearing Pathways, in 
         Wilkinson, Carroll (2012). Transforming Information Literacy Programs: Intersecting Frontiers of Self, Library Culture, and Campus Community. Chicago, IL: ACRL Publications in Librarianship. pp.&nbsp;3–44. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8389-8603-5. 
        Carpenter, J. P. (1989). Using the new technologies to create links between schools throughout the world: Colloquy on computerized school links. (Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom, October 17–20, 1988). 
        Doty, P. (2003). Bibliographic instruction: The digital divide and resistance of users to technologies. Retrieved July 12, 2009, from http://www.ischool.utexas.edu/~l38613dw/website_spring_03/readings/BiblioInstruction.html 
        Doyle, C.S. (1992). Outcome Measures for Information Literacy Within the National Education Goals of 1990. Final Report to National Forum on Information Literacy. Summary of Findings. 
        Eisenberg, M. (2004). Information literacy: The whole enchilada . Retrieved July 14, 2009, from https://web.archive.org/web/20111001054537/http://www.big6.com/presentations/sreb/ 
        Eisenberg, M., Lowe, C., &amp; Spitzer, K. (2004). Information Literacy: Essential Skills for the Information Age. 2nd. edition. Libraries Unlimited. 
        Ercegovac, Zorana. (2008). Information literacy: Search strategies, tools &amp; resources for high school students and college freshmen. (2nd ed.). Columbus, OH: Linworth Books. &lt;https://web.archive.org/web/20130914191842/http://infoen.net/page1/page1.html&gt;. 
        Ercegovac, Zorana. (2012). "Letting students use Web 2.0 tools to hook one another on reading". Knowledge Quest, 40 (3), 36-39. &lt;&gt;. 
        
         Federer, Lisa M.; Lu, Ya-Ling; Joubert, Douglas J. (January 2016). "Data literacy training needs of biomedical researchers". Journal of the Medical Library Association. 104 (1): 52–57. doi:10.3163/1536-5050.104.1.008. PMC&nbsp;4722643. PMID&nbsp;26807053. 
        Fister, Barbara. (2019, February 14). Information Literacy's Third Wave. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved November 10, 2019, from https://www.insidehighered.com/blogs/library-babel-fish/information-literacy%E2%80%99s-third-wave 
        
         Grassian, E. (2004). "Information Literacy: Building on Bibliographic Instruction". American Libraries. 35 (9): 51–53. 
        
         Munn, Joanne; Small, Jann (18 September 2017). "What is the Best Way to Develop Information Literacy and Academic Skills of First Year Health Science Students? A Systematic Review". Evidence Based Library and Information Practice. 12 (3): 56–94. doi:10.18438/B8QS9M. 
        National Commission of Excellence in Education. (1983). A Nation at risk: The imperative for educational reform. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. (ED 226 006) 
        National Hispanic Council on Aging. (nd). Mission statement. Retrieved July 13, 2009, from National Forum on Information Literacy Web site. 
        
         Nierenberg, Ellen; Fjeldbu, Øyvind Gjems (7 June 2015). "How much do first-year undergraduate students in Norway know about information literacy?". Journal of Information Literacy. 9 (1): 15. doi:10.11645/9.1.1983. 
        Obama, B. (2009). Presidential Proclamation: National Information Literacy Awareness Month, 2009. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. Retrieved October 27, 2009 from https://web.archive.org/web/20121021192357/http://www.whitehouse.gov/assets/documents/2009literacy_prc_rel.pdf 
        Osborne, R. (Ed.). (2004). From outreach to equity: Innovative models of library policy and practice. Chicago: American Library Association. 
        Ryan, J., &amp; Capra, S. (2001). Information literacy toolkit. Chicago: American Library Association. 
        Schwarzenegger, S. (2009). Executive order S-06-09. Sacramento, CA. Retrieved October 27, 2009 from https://web.archive.org/web/20110602181538/http://gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=12393 
        SCONUL. (2007). The Seven Pillars of Information Literacy model. Retrieved November 3, 2010 from https://web.archive.org/web/20071028011653/http://www.sconul.ac.uk/groups/information_literacy/sp/model.html 
        Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills 
        Tuominen et al. (2005). Information Literacy as a Sociotechnical Practice. The University of Chicago Press.
        
       
      External links 
      
      
       
        
         Library resources about  Information literacy 
          
        
        
          
          
           Resources in your library 
           Resources in other libraries
           
        
       
       
      
       ELD information literacy wiki, U. Cal. Davis
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Literacy
           
         
         
          Learning
          
            
            
             Adolescent literacy 
             Emergent literacy 
             Family literacy 
             Functional illiteracy 
             Phonics 
             Post-literacy 
             Whole language
             
           
         
         
          Locations
          
            
            
             List of countries by literacy rate 
             India 
              
               Bihar
               
             New Zealand 
              
               Tokelau
               
             Romania 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Institutions
          
            
            
             International Literacy Association 
             International Literacy Day 
             National Council of Teachers of English 
             No Child Left Behind Act
             
           
         
         
          People
          
            
            
             Marie Clay 
             Ruth Johnson Colvin 
             Paulo Freire 
             James Paul Gee 
             Griffith Jones 
             Frank Laubach 
             Brian Street
             
           
         
         
          Other types
          
            
            
             Agricultural 
             Braille 
             Carbon 
             Computer 
             Critical 
             Cultural 
             Data 
             Diaspora 
             Ecological 
             Electracy 
             Emotional 
             Faith 
             Financial 
             Geo-literacy 
             Graph 
             Health 
             Information 
             Information literacies 
             Information and media 
             Legal 
             Media 
             Mental health 
             Multiliteracies 
             Musical 
             Numeracy 
             Object 
             Oracy 
             Power 
             Physical 
             Racial 
             Religious 
             Scientific 
             Social 
             Statistical 
             Technological 
             Transliteracy 
             Visual 
             Web
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Aliteracy 
             Asemic writing 
             Children's literature 
             Dick and Jane 
             Dyslexia 
             Literacy test 
             Media consumption 
             Orality 
             Oral literature 
             Post-literate society 
             Reading 
             Writing 
             Writing system
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Latvia
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_literacy&amp;oldid=1065497379"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information science
       Digital divide
       Literacy
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       All articles with incomplete citations
       Articles with incomplete citations from March 2020
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from February 2013
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       CS1 errors: generic name
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2020
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2018
       United States-centric
       Wikipedia articles with style issues from December 2018
       All articles with style issues
       Articles with multiple maintenance issues
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from September 2020
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with LNB identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       বাংলা
       Български
       Bosanski
       Català
       Čeština
       Cymraeg
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       हिन्दी
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       Italiano
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Polski
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 13 January 2022, at 21:25&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
