
 
  
   
  Library management - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Library management 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article is in list format but may read better as prose. You can help by converting this article, if appropriate. Editing help is available. (October 2011)
          
        
       
      
      
      
       
        
         Library catalogingand classification
        
        
         Dewey Decimal
         022
        
       
       
      Library management is a sub-discipline of institutional management that focuses on specific issues faced by libraries and library management professionals. Library management encompasses normal managerial tasks, as well as intellectual freedom and fundraising responsibilities. Issues faced in library management frequently overlap with those faced in managing non-profit organizations. 
      The basic functions of library management include,, overseeing all library operations,managing library budget , planning and negotiating the acquisition of materials, Interlibrary Loan  requests, stacks maintenance, over seeing fee collection, event planning, fundraising, and human resources.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Common library construct 
        2 Planning and maintaining library facilities 
        3 Associations and publications 
        4 References 
          
          4.1 Suggested reading 
           
        5 External links 
        
       
      Common library construct 
      Most of the libraries that store physical media like books, periodicals, film, and other objects adhere to some derivative of the Dewey Decimal System as their method for tagging, storing, and retrieving materials based on unique identifiers. The use of such systems have caused librarians to develop and leverage common constructs that act as tools for both library professionals and library users alike. These constructs include master catalogs, domain catalogs, indexes, unique identifiers, unique identifier tokens, and artifacts .  
      
       A master catalog acts as a catalog of all domain or topic-specific catalogs and often directs the user to a more specific area of a library, where the user can find a more specific domain catalog. For example, upon entering a very large library, one may find a master catalog that will direct a patron to a specific wing of the library that focuses on a specific subject, such as law, history, fiction, etc. 
       Domain catalogs are usually made up of a system of very large libraries, where a master catalog cannot hold all of the system's information. As a result, the master catalog leads the user to domain catalogs that contain homogeneous references to specific artifacts that fall within the category or domain assigned to that catalog. For example, a very large library may have many domain catalogs—one for law, one for history, one for fiction, etc. In the case of smaller libraries where the use of domain catalogs are unnecessary, the master catalog can contain all of the information. 
       Indexes represent a grouping of artifacts by some relevant grouping constraint. The most common index groupings are "by title," "by subject,", publisher" and "by author." 
       Unique identifiers, also known as IDs, represent a means of assigning and tagging an artifact with a readable string of characters that is unique to that single artifact. Such identifiers usually include the address or location of the artifact within the library, and a unique character set that helps to distinguish artifacts that have common traits like common titles. Such unique identifiers are also broken into tokens and are usually placed somewhere on the surface of the artifact being stored, such as on the binding of a book, to facilitate in easily locating that item. 
       Unique identification strings are broken into predefined and fixed position segments or sub-strings. Each segment is called a token and represents a mapping to something meaningful, hence the name unique identifier tokens. For example, one token may lead a user to a specific wing of a library, another might lead the user to a specific aisle within that wing, another to a specific bookcase within that aisle, etc., all ultimately leading to the artifact itself. Such tokens are often separated by a character that is often referred to as a tokenizer (e.g. "." or ":"). 
       Artifacts represent those original things or authorized copies of things that are being categorized, stored within, and retrieved from libraries. Examples of artifacts include books, periodicals, research documentation, film, and computer disks.
       
      Planning and maintaining library facilities 
      An important aspect of library management is planning and maintaining library facilities. Successful planning is defined as "active planning that ensures an organization will have the right people in the right place at the right time for right job"  Planning the construction of new libraries or remodeling those that exist is integral since user needs are often changing. To supplement their operating budget, managers often secure funding through donor gifts and fundraising. Many facilities have begun including cafes, Friends of the Library spaces, and even exhibits to help generate additional revenue. These areas should be taken into account when planning for building expansions. 
      The site for new construction must be found, then the building must be designed, constructed, and eventually evaluated. Once established, it is important that the building is regularly maintained. This may be completed by delegating tasks to maintenance personnel or by hiring an outside company through bids. 
      Disaster planning must be taken into account in the library context as well: not only the impact of a disaster on the library, but the library's potential role as a support service just after a disaster.  
      Associations and publications 
      The Library Leadership and Management Association (LLAMA) is a division of the American Library Association that provides leaders with webinars, conferences, and a variety of industry publications, in addition to funding through awards and grants. LLAMA membership includes a free subscription to the online quarterly magazine Library Leadership &amp; Management, as well as discounts on other publications and related conferences. In 2020 LLAMA merged with two other division of ALA to form Core: Leadership, Infrastructure, Futures. 
      The Journal of Library Administration began in 1980 and is currently published by Routledge eight times per year. It is a peer-reviewed academic journal that discusses issues pertaining to library management.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Sharma, C. K.; Singh, Kiran (2005), Library Management, ISBN&nbsp;978-81-269-0452-5  
         ^ 
           McClure, C. R. (1980). "LIBRARY MANAGERS: Can They Manage? Will They Lead?". Library Journal: 2391.  
         ^ 
           Wellish, Hans H. "Dewey Decimal Classification, Universal Decimal Classification, and the Broad System of Ordering: The Evolution of Universal Ordering Systems". College of Library and Information Sciences, University of Maryland. CiteSeerX&nbsp;10.1.1.221.3537. }: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)  
         ^ 
           Hawthorne, P (2011). "Succession Planning and Management: A Key Leadership Responsibility Emerges". Texas Library Journal. 87 (1): 8–12.  
         ^ 
           "ALA | Exhibit Spaces and Bulletin Boards". www.ala.org. Retrieved 2016-09-20.  
         ^ 
           Pautz, Hartwig. "Income generation in public libraries: potentials and pitfalls". Library Review. 63 (8/9): 568.  
         ^ 
           Moran, B.; Stueart, R.; Morner, C. (2013). Library and Information Center Management. California: Libraries Unlimited. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-59884-989-9.  
         ^ 
           "Disaster planning". Australian Library and Information Association.  
         ^ The LLAMA website now points to Core.  
         ^ 
           "The Journal of Library Administration". Retrieved 7 November 2013.  
        
       
       
      Suggested reading 
      
       Ainslie, Karen. 2016. Internal Control for Public Libraries. Indiana State Library. 
       Gregory, Ruth W. and Lester L. Stoffel. Public Libraries in Cooperative Systems: Administrative Patters for Service. Chicago: American Library Association, 1971. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-8389-0110-7 
       Lock, Reginald Northwood. Library Administration. London: C. Lockwood &amp; Son, 1961. vi, 132,  p. 
       Lyle, Guy R. The Administration of the College Library, with the collaboration of Paul H. Bixler, Marjorie Hood, and Arnold H. Trotier. Third ed. New York: H. W. Wilson Co., 1961. xiii, 419 p. 
       Vishwakarma M L.and Parashar V _Ed. Halkar Giriraj, Natrajan M, Singh,Hirdyesh Kumar et al_ Changing Role of Library Professionals &amp; Libraries in the Digital Age. New Delhi_India: American Library Association,International Research Publication House,New Delhi, 2014. 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-93-84144-79-1 
       Wofford, Azile. The School Library at Work: Acquisition, Organization, Use, and Maintenance of Materials in the School Library. New York: H. W. Wilson Co., 1959. 
       Songphan Choemprayong,Fabio Crestani and Sally Jo Cunningham (Eds.)Digital Libraries: Data, Information, and Knowledge for Digital LivesCham, Switzerland:Springer,2017. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70232-2
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikisource has the text of the 1920 Encyclopedia Americana article Library Administration.
         
       
       
      
       American Library Association, What Library Managers Need to Know 
       Library Instruction for Teachers, Blog by Michael Lorenzen 
       Library Leadership &amp; Management Association 
       Library Management 
       RFID based Library Management Software, LIBSYS Press Release 
       UNESCO Adult Learning Documentation and Information Network, Managing A Library PDF
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library_management&amp;oldid=1037265442"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library management
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: missing periodical
       Articles needing cleanup from October 2011
       All pages needing cleanup
       Articles with sections that need to be turned into prose from October 2011
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Беларуская
       Deutsch
       فارسی
       한국어
       Русский
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 5 August 2021, at 13:50&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
