
 
  
   
  Cultural heritage - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Cultural heritage 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Physical artifact or intangible attribute of a society inherited from past generations
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Roman ruins with a prophet, by Giovanni Pannini, 1751. The artistic cultural heritage of the Roman Empire served as a foundation for later Western culture, particularly via the Renaissance and Neoclassicism (as exemplified here).
        
       
       
      Cultural heritage is the legacy of tangible and intangible heritage assets of a group or society that is inherited from past generations. Not all legacies of past generations are "heritage"; rather, heritage is a product of selection by society. 
      Cultural heritage includes tangible culture (such as buildings, monuments, landscapes, books, works of art, and artifacts), intangible culture (such as folklore, traditions, language, and knowledge), and natural heritage (including culturally significant landscapes, and biodiversity). The term is often used in connection with issues relating to the protection of Indigenous intellectual property. 
      The deliberate act of keeping cultural heritage from the present for the future is known as preservation (American English) or conservation (British English), which cultural and historical ethnic museums and cultural centers promote, though these terms may have more specific or technical meanings in the same contexts in the other dialect. Preserved heritage has become an anchor of the global tourism industry, a major contributor economic value to local communities. 
      Legal protection of cultural property comprises a number of international agreements and national laws. United Nations, UNESCO and Blue Shield International deal with the protection of cultural heritage. This also applies to the integration of United Nations peacekeeping.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Types of heritage 
          
          1.1 Cultural property 
          1.2 Intangible culture 
          1.3 Natural heritage 
           
        2 Protection of cultural heritage 
          
          2.1 History 
           
        3 The ethics and rationale of cultural preservation 
        4 World heritage movement 
        5 National and regional heritage movements 
        6 Issues in cultural heritage 
        7 Management of cultural heritage 
        8 Value Creation through Digitisation 
        9 See also 
          
          9.1 Digital methods in preservation 
           
        10 References 
        11 Further reading 
        12 External links 
        
       
      Types of heritage 
      
      
       See also: Indigenous intellectual property
       
      Cultural property 
      
      
       See also: Material culture
       
      Cultural property includes the physical, or "tangible" cultural heritage, such as artworks. These are generally split into two groups of movable and immovable heritage. Immovable heritage includes buildings (which themselves may include installed art such as organs, stained glass windows, and frescos), large industrial installations, residential projects or other historic places and monuments. Moveable heritage includes books, documents, moveable artworks, machines, clothing, and other artifacts, that are considered worthy of preservation for the future. These include objects significant to the archaeology, architecture, science or technology of a specified culture. 
      Aspects and disciplines of the preservation and conservation of tangible culture include:  
      
       Museology 
       Archival science 
       Conservation (cultural heritage) 
        
         Art conservation 
         Archaeological conservation 
         Architectural conservation 
         Film preservation 
         Phonograph record preservation
         
       Digital preservation
       
      Intangible culture 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Grandfather tells a story, by Albert Anker, ca. 1884.
        
       
       
      
      
       Main article: Intangible cultural heritage
       
      "Intangible cultural heritage" consists of non-physical aspects of a particular culture, more often maintained by social customs during a specific period in history. The concept includes the ways and means of behavior in a society, and the often formal rules for operating in a particular cultural climate. These include social values and traditions, customs and practices, aesthetic and spiritual beliefs, artistic expression, language and other aspects of human activity. The significance of physical artifacts can be interpreted as an act against the backdrop of socioeconomic, political, ethnic, religious and philosophical values of a particular group of people. Naturally, intangible cultural heritage is more difficult to preserve than physical objects. 
      Aspects of the preservation and conservation of cultural intangibles include:  
      
       folklore 
       oral history 
       language preservation
       
      Natural heritage 
      
      
       See also: Conservation movement
       
      "Natural heritage" is also an important part of a society's heritage, encompassing the countryside and natural environment, including flora and fauna, scientifically known as biodiversity, as well as geological elements (including mineralogical, geomorphological, paleontological, etc.), scientifically known as geodiversity. These kind of heritage sites often serve as an important component in a country's tourist industry, attracting many visitors from abroad as well as locally. Heritage can also include cultural landscapes (natural features that may have cultural attributes). 
      Aspects of the preservation and conservation of natural heritage include:  
      
       Rare breeds conservation 
       Heirloom plants
       
      Protection of cultural heritage 
      History 
      There have been examples of respect for the cultural assets of enemies since ancient times. The roots of today's legal situation for the precise protection of cultural heritage also lie in some of Austria's ruler Maria Theresa (1717 - 1780) decided Regulations and the demands of the Congress of Vienna (1814/15) not to remove works of art from their place of origin in the war. The process continued at the end of the 19th century when, in 1874 (in Brussels), at least a draft international agreement on the laws and customs of war was agreed. 25 years later, in 1899, an international peace conference was held in the Netherlands on the initiative of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, with the aim of revising the declaration (which was never ratified) and adopting a convention. The Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 also significantly advanced international law and laid down the principle of the immunity of cultural property. Three decades later, in 1935, the preamble to the Treaty on the Protection of Artistic and Scientific Institutions (Roerich Pact) was formulated. On the initiative of UNESCO, the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict was signed in 1954. 
      Protection of cultural heritage or protection of cultural goods means all measures to protect cultural property against damage, destruction, theft, embezzlement or other loss. The term “monument protection” is also used for immovable cultural property. This relates in particular to the prevention of robbery digs at archaeological sites, the looting or destruction of cultural sites and the theft of works of art from churches and museums all over the world and basically measures regarding the conservation and general access to our common cultural heritage. Legal protection of cultural heritage comprises a number of international agreements and national laws, and these must also be implemented. 
      There is a close partnership between the UN, United Nations peacekeeping, UNESCO, the International Committee of the Red Cross and Blue Shield International.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Karl von Habsburg, on a Blue Shield International fact-finding mission in Libya
        
       
       
      The protection of the cultural heritage should also preserve the particularly sensitive cultural memory, the growing cultural diversity and the economic basis of a state, a municipality or a region. Whereby there is also a connection between cultural user disruption or cultural heritage and the cause of flight. But only through the fundamental cooperation, including the military units and the planning staff, with the locals can the protection of world heritage sites, archaeological finds, exhibits and archaeological sites from destruction, looting and robbery be implemented sustainably. The founding president of Blue Shield International Karl von Habsburg summed it up with the words: “Without the local community and without the local participants, that would be completely impossible”.  
      The ethics and rationale of cultural preservation 
      Objects are a part of the study of human history because they provide a concrete basis for ideas, and can validate them. Their preservation demonstrates a recognition of the necessity of the past and of the things that tell its story. In The Past is a Foreign Country, David Lowenthal observes that preserved objects also validate memories. While digital acquisition techniques can provide a technological solution that is able to acquire the shape and the appearance of artifacts with an unprecedented precision in human history, the actuality of the object, as opposed to a reproduction, draws people in and gives them a literal way of touching the past. This, unfortunately, poses a danger as places and things are damaged by the hands of tourists, the light required to display them, and other risks of making an object known and available. The reality of this risk reinforces the fact that all artifacts are in a constant state of chemical transformation, so that what is considered to be preserved is actually changing – it is never as it once was. Similarly changing is the value each generation may place on the past and on the artifacts that link it to the past.  
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
         Kautilya Society in Varanasi - When heritage protection becomes a fight for legality and participation  → "They harass me because I demand civil society participation to public policies and I contrast the misuse of privileges"
        
       
       
      Classical civilizations, especially Indian, have attributed supreme importance to the preservation of tradition. Its central idea was that social institutions, scientific knowledge and technological applications need to use a "heritage" as a "resource". Using contemporary language, we could say that ancient Indians considered, as social resources, both economic assets (like natural resources and their exploitation structure) and factors promoting social integration (like institutions for the preservation of knowledge and for the maintenance of civil order). Ethics considered that what had been inherited should not be consumed, but should be handed over, possibly enriched, to successive generations. This was a moral imperative for all, except in the final life stage of sannyasa. 
      What one generation considers "cultural heritage" may be rejected by the next generation, only to be revived by a subsequent generation.  
      World heritage movement 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Plaque stating the designation of Carthage as a World Heritage Site.
        
       
       
      Significant was the Convention Concerning the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage that was adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO in 1972. As of 2011, there are 936 World Heritage Sites: 725 cultural, 183 natural, and 28 mixed properties, in 153 countries. Each of these sites is considered important to the international community. 
      The underwater cultural heritage is protected by the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This convention is a legal instrument helping states parties to improve the protection of their underwater cultural heritage. 
      In addition, UNESCO has begun designating masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights sitting as part of the United Nations Economic and Social Council with article 15 of its Covenant had sought to instill the principles under which cultural heritage is protected as part of a basic human right. 
      Key international documents and bodies include:  
      
       Athens Charter, 1931 
       Roerich Pact, 1935 
       Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, 1954, (with a definition of cultural heritage item adopted by some national law) 
       Venice Charter, 1964 
       Barcelona Charter, 2002 (regarding maritime vessel preservation) 
       ICOMOS 
       The Blue Shield, a network of committees of dedicated individuals across the world that is “committed to the protection of the world’s cultural property, and is concerned with the protection of cultural and natural heritage, tangible and intangible, in the event of armed conflict, natural- or human-made disaster.” 
       International Institute for Conservation
       
      National and regional heritage movements 
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
          Rediscovery of the Muisca Indigenous Heritage 
           El redescubrimiento de la tradición indígena
        
       
       
      
       
        ">
         Play media
         
        
         
          
         Youth and Heritage in Syria 
           Passing on traditional values
        
       
       
      Much of heritage preservation work is done at the national, regional, or local levels of society. Various national and regional regimes include:  
      
       Australia:
       
      
       
        Burra Charter
        
       
        Heritage Overlay in Victoria, Australia
       
       
      
       Brazil:
       
      
       
        National Institute of Historic and Artistic Heritage
       
       
      
       Canada
       
      
       
        Heritage conservation in Canada
       
       
      
       Chile
       
      
       
        National Monuments Council (Chile)
       
       
      
       China
       
      
       
        State Administration of Cultural Heritage
       
       
      
       Egypt
       
      
       
        Supreme Council of Antiquities
       
       
      
       Estonia
       
      
       
        Ministry of Culture (Estonia)
        
       
        National Heritage Board (Estonia)
       
       
      
       Ghana
       
      
       
        Ghana’s material cultural heritage
       
       
      
       Honduras
       
      
       
        Secretary of State for Culture, Arts and Sports
       
       
      
       Hong Kong
       
      
       
        Heritage conservation in Hong Kong
       
       
      
       India
       
      
       
        Ministry of Culture (India)
        
       
        National Archives of India
        
       
        Archaeological Survey of India
        
       
        Anthropological Survey of India
        
       
        Culture of India
        
        
       
        National Museum Institute of the History of Art, Conservation and Museology
        
       
        List of World Heritage Sites in India
        
       
        Indian Heritage Cities Network, Mysore
        
       
        Heritage structures in Hyderabad
       
       
      
       Iran
       
      
       
        Cultural Heritage, Handcrafts and Tourism Organization
       
       
      
       Japan
       
      
       
        Cultural Properties of Japan
       
       
      
       Kenya
       
      
       
        National Museums of Kenya
        
       
        International Inventories Programme
       
       
      
       Macedonia
       
      
       
        Institute for Protection of Cultural Monuments
       
       
      
       Malaysia
       
      
       
        The National Heritage Act
       
       
      
       Namibia
       
      
       
        National Heritage Council of Namibia
        
       
        National Monuments Council
       
       
      
       New Zealand
       
      
       
        New Zealand Historic Places Trust
       
       
      
       Pakistan
       
      
       
        Lahore Museum of Art and Cultural History
        
       
        Lok Virsa Heritage Museum
        
       
        National Museum of Pakistan
        
       
        Pakistan Monument and Heritage Museum
       
       
      
       Philippines
       
      
       
        National Commission for Culture and the Arts
        
       
        National Historical Commission of the Philippines
       
       
      
       Poland
       
      
       
        National Ossoliński Institute
       
       
      
       South Africa
       
      
       
        South African Heritage Resources Agency
        
       
        Provincial heritage resources authorities
        
       
        Amafa aKwaZulu-Natali
        
       
        Heritage Western Cape
        
       
        Northern Cape Heritage Resources Authority
        
       
        National Monuments Council
        
       
        Historical Monuments Commission
       
       
      
       United Kingdom
       
      
       
        Conservation in the United Kingdom
        
       
        English Heritage
        
       
        English Heritage Archive
        
       
        National Trust
        
       
        Cadw
        
       
        Northern Ireland Environment Agency
        
       
        Historic Environment Scotland
        
       
        National Trust for Scotland
       
       
      
       United States of America
       
      
       
        National Register of Historic Places
       
       
      
       Zimbabwe
       
      
       
        National Monuments of Zimbabwe
       
       
      Issues in cultural heritage 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Emblem used to clearly identify cultural property under protection of the Hague Convention of 1954, regarding cultural property during armed conflicts.
        
       
       
      Broad philosophical, technical, and political issues and dimensions of cultural heritage include:  
      
       Cultural heritage repatriation 
       Cultural heritage management 
       Cultural property law 
       Heritage tourism 
       Virtual heritage 
       Sustainable preservation
       
      Management of cultural heritage 
      Issues in cultural heritage management include:  
      
       Exhibition of cultural heritage objects 
       Radiography of cultural objects 
       Storage of cultural heritage objects 
       Collections maintenance 
       Disaster preparedness
       
      Value Creation through Digitisation 
      Through digitisation a range of values can be created relating to documentation, preservation, research, education, commercialisation, engagement, etc.  
      See also 
      
       Antiquarian 
       Architectural Heritage 
       Collecting 
       Heritage film 
       International Council on Monuments and Sites 
       Values (heritage)
       
      Digital methods in preservation 
      
       DigiCULT 
       ERPANET 
       Intellectual property issues in cultural heritage (IPinCH) 
       MICHAEL (webportal)&nbsp;
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b Logan, William S. (2007). "Closing Pandora's Box: Human Rights Conundrums in Cultural Heritage". In Silverman, Helaine; Ruggles, D. Fairchild (eds.). Cultural heritage and human rights. New York, NY: Springer. ISBN&nbsp;9780387713137. OCLC&nbsp;187048155.  
         ^ a b Ann Marie Sullivan, Cultural Heritage &amp; New Media: A Future for the Past, 15 J. MARSHALL REV. INTELL. PROP. L. 604 (2016) https://repository.jmls.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1392&amp;context=ripl  
         ^ 
           "Indigenous Cultural and Intellectual Property (ICIP) (AITB)". Arts Law Centre of Australia. Retrieved 21 July 2021.  
         ^ 
           "UNESCO Legal Instruments: Second Protocol to the Hague Convention of 1954 for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict 1999".  
         ^ UNESCO convenes Libyan and international experts meeting for the safeguard of Libya’s cultural heritage. UNESCO World Heritage Center - News, 21. Oktober 2011.  
         ^ Roger O’Keefe, Camille Péron, Tofig Musayev, Gianluca Ferrari "Protection of Cultural Property. Military Manual." UNESCO, 2016, S. 73ff.  
         ^ Eric Gibson: The Destruction of Cultural Heritage Should be a War Crime. In: The Wall Street Journal, 2 March 2015.  
         ^ UNESCO Director-General calls for stronger cooperation for heritage protection at the Blue Shield International General Assembly. UNESCO, 13 September 2017.  
         ^ a b UNIFIL - Action plan to preserve heritage sites during conflict, 12 Apr 2019.  
         ^ Schutz des kulturellen Erbes (German - Protection of cultural heritgage), Austrian Armed Forces  
         ^ A historic resolution to protect cultural heritage, The UNESCO Courier  
         ^ Corine Wegener, Marjan Otter: Cultural Property at War: Protecting Heritage during Armed Conflict. In: The Getty Conservation Institute, Newsletter 23.1, Spring 2008.  
         ^ Roger O’Keefe, Camille Péron, Tofig Musayev, Gianluca Ferrari "Protection of Cultural Property. Military Manual." UNESCO, 2016.  
         ^ Eden Stiffman "Cultural Preservation in Disasters, War Zones. Presents Big Challenges" in The Chronicle Of Philanthropy, 11 May 2015.  
         ^ "UNESCO Director-General calls for stronger cooperation for heritage protection at the Blue Shield International General Assembly.", UNESCO - 13 September 2017.  
         ^ Friedrich Schipper: "Bildersturm: Die globalen Normen zum Schutz von Kulturgut greifen nicht" (German - The global norms for the protection of cultural property do not apply), In: Der Standard, 6 March 2015.  
         ^  The ICRC and the Blue Shield signed a Memorandum of Understanding, 26 February 2020.  
         ^ Action plan to preserve heritage sites during conflict - UNITED NATIONS, 12 Apr 2019  
         ^ 
           "Austrian Armed Forces Mission in Lebanon" (in German).  
         ^ Jyot Hosagrahar: Culture: at the heart of SDGs. UNESCO-Kurier, April-Juni 2017.  
         ^ Rick Szostak: The Causes of Economic Growth: Interdisciplinary Perspectives. Springer Science &amp; Business Media, 2009, 
           ISBN&nbsp;9783540922827.  
         ^ 
           Tanselle, G. Thomas (1998), Literature and Artifacts, Charlottesville, VA: Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia, ISBN&nbsp;1-883631-06-8, OCLC&nbsp;39223648  
         ^ 
           Paolo Cignoni; Roberto Scopigno (June 2008), "Sampled 3D models for CH applications: A viable and enabling new medium or just a technological exercise?" (PDF), ACM Journal on Computing and Cultural Heritage, 1 (1): 1, doi:10.1145/1367080.1367082, S2CID&nbsp;16510261.  
         ^ 
           Lowenthal, David (1985), The Past is a Foreign Country, New York: Cambridge University Press, ISBN&nbsp;0-521-22415-2, OCLC&nbsp;12052097  
         ^ 
           Proposing Varanasi for the World Heritage List of UNESCO (PDF), Varanasi Development Authority.  
         ^ 
           Singh, Rana P.B., Vrinda Dar and S. Pravin, Rationales for including Varanasi as heritage city in the UNESCO World Heritage List, National Geographic Journal of India (varanasi) 2001, 47:177-200}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link).  
         ^   
         ^ 
           Roberts, Hayley (2018). "The British Ratification of the Underwater Heritage Convention: Problems and Prospects". International &amp; Comparative Law Quarterly. 67 (4): 833–865. doi:10.1017/S0020589318000210. ISSN&nbsp;0020-5893. S2CID&nbsp;149780539.  
         ^ 
           "Tere tulemast". register.muinas.ee. Retrieved 21 September 2018.  
         ^ 
           Mariusz Dworsatschek, ed. (2017). Nie tylko książki. Ossolińskie kolekcje i ich opiekunowie (in Polish) (1&nbsp;ed.). Wrocław: Osso Wczoraj i Dziś. ISBN&nbsp;978-83-65588-31-9. "not just books. The Ossolineum's collections and their custodians".  
         ^ 
           "Preserving Global History Through Digitisation".  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Michael Falser. Cultural Heritage as Civilizing Mission. From Decay to Recovery. Heidelberg, New York: Springer (2015), 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-319-13638-7. 
       Michael Falser, Monica Juneja (eds.). 'Archaeologizing' Heritage? Transcultural Entanglements between Local Social Practices and Global Virtual Realities. Heidelberg, New York: Springer (2013), 
        ISBN&nbsp;978-3-642-35870-8. 
       
        Fiankan-Bokonga, Catherine (2017-10-17). "A historic resolution to protect cultural heritage". UNESCO. Retrieved 2021-08-03.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link) 
       Ann Marie Sullivan, Cultural Heritage &amp; New Media: A Future for the Past, 15 J. MARSHALL REV. INTELL. PROP. L. 604 (2016) https://repository.jmls.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1392&amp;context=ripl 
       Barbara T. Hoffman, Art and cultural heritage: law, policy, and practice, Cambridge University Press, 2006 
       Leila A. Amineddoleh, "Protecting Cultural Heritage by Strictly Scrutinizing Museum Acquisitions," Fordham Intellectual Property, Media &amp; Entertainment Law Journal, Vol. 24, No. 3. Available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467100 
       Paolo Davide Farah, Riccardo Tremolada, Desirability of Commodification of Intangible Cultural Heritage: The Unsatisfying Role of IPRs, in TRANSNATIONAL DISPUTE MANAGEMENT, Special Issues “The New Frontiers of Cultural Law: Intangible Heritage Disputes”, Volume 11, Issue 2, March 2014, 
        ISSN&nbsp;1875-4120 Available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2472339 
       Paolo Davide Farah, Riccardo Tremolada, Intellectual Property Rights, Human Rights and Intangible Cultural Heritage, Journal of Intellectual Property Law, Issue 2, Part I, June 2014, 
        ISSN&nbsp;0035-614X, Giuffrè, pp.&nbsp;21–47. Available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2472388 
       Nora Lafi, Building and Destroying Authenticity in Aleppo: Heritage between Conservation, Transformation, Destruction, and Re-Invention in Christoph Bernhardt, Martin Sabrow, Achim Saupe. Gebaute Geschichte. Historische Authentizität im Stadtraum, Wallstein, pp.206-228, 2017 
       Dallen J. Timothy and Gyan P. Nyaupane, Cultural heritage and tourism in the developing world&nbsp;: a regional perspective, Taylor &amp; Francis, 2009 
       Peter Probst, "Osogbo and the Art of Heritage: Monuments, Deities, and Money", Indiana University Press, 2011 
       Constantine Sandis (ed.), Cultural Heritage Ethics: Between Theory and Practice, Open Book Publishers, 2014 
       Zuckermann, Ghil'ad et al., ENGAGING - A Guide to Interacting Respectfully and Reciprocally with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People, and their Arts Practices and Intellectual Property, Australian Government: Indigenous Culture Support, 2015 
       
        Walters, Diana; Laven, Daniel; Davis, Peter (2017). Heritage &amp; Peacebuilding. Suffolk, UK: Boydell Press. ISBN&nbsp;9781783272167. 
       Kocój E., Między mainstremem a undergroundem. Dziedzictwo regionalne w kulturze europejskiej – odkrywanie znaczeń,  Dziedzictwo kulturowe w regionach europejskich. Odkrywanie, ochrona i (re)interpretacja, Seria wydawnicza:, Studia nad dziedzictwem i pamięcią kulturową“, tom I, Kraków 2019, red. Ewa Kocój, Tomasz Kosiek, Joanna Szulborska-Łukaszewicz, pp. 10–35. 
       Dziedzictwo kulturowe w regionach europejskich. Odkrywanie, ochrona i (re)interpretacja, Seria wydawnicza:, Studia nad dziedzictwem i pamięcią kulturową“, tom I, red. Ewa Kocój, Tomasz Kosiek, Joanna Szulborska-Łukaszewicz, Kraków 2019, p. 300.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cultural heritage.
         
       
       
      
       Cultural heritage policy - history and resources Getty Museum - list of major international cultural heritage documents, charters, and treaties 
       UNESCO World Heritage Centre – Official website of the United Nations organization for cultural heritage 
       International Council on Monuments and Sites 
       International Council of Museums 
       International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property 
       Cultural routes and landscapes, a common heritage of Europe (English and French language) 
       EPOCH – European Research Network on Excellence in Processing Open Cultural Heritage 
       Peace Palace Library - Research Guide 
       National Council for Preservation Education 
       Dédalo Open source management system for Cultural heritage 
        Cultural heritage travel guide from Wikivoyage
       
        
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Culture
           
         
         
          
           
             Outline
           
         
         
          Sciences
          
            
            
             Cultural anthropology 
             Cultural astronomy 
             Cultural ecology 
             Cultural geography 
             Cultural neuroscience 
             Cultural studies 
             Culturology 
             Culture theory 
             Security culture 
             Neuroculture
             
           
         
         
          Subfields
          
            
            
             Bioculture 
             Cross-cultural studies 
              
               Cross-cultural communication 
               Cross-cultural leadership 
               Cross-cultural psychiatry 
               Cross-cultural psychology
               
             Cultural analytics 
             Cultural economics 
             Cultural entomology 
             Cultural history 
             Cultural mapping 
             Cultural mediation 
             Cultural psychology 
             Cultural values 
             Culturomics 
             Intercultural learning 
             Intercultural relations 
             Internet culture 
             Philosophy of culture 
             Popular culture studies 
             Postcritique 
             Semiotics of culture 
             Sociology of culture 
             Sound culture 
             Theology of culture 
             Transcultural nursing
             
           
         
         
          Types
          
            
            
             Constructed culture 
             Dominant culture 
             Folk culture 
             High culture 
             Individualistic culture 
             Legal culture 
             Low culture 
             Microculture 
             Official culture 
             Political culture 
              
               Civic
               
             Popular culture 
              
               Urban
               
             Primitive culture 
             Subculture 
              
               Alternative culture 
               list
               
             Super culture 
             Vernacular culture 
             Culture by location
             
           
         
         
          Aspects
          
            
            
             Acculturation 
             Cultural appreciation 
             Cultural appropriation 
             Cultural area 
             Cultural artifact 
             Cultural baggage 
             Cultural behavior 
             Cultural bias 
             Cultural capital 
              
               Cross-cultural
               
             Cultural communication 
             Cultural conflict 
             Cultural cringe 
             Cultural dissonance 
             Cultural emphasis 
             Cultural framework 
             Cultural heritage 
             Cultural icon 
             Cultural identity 
             Cultural industry 
             Cultural invention 
             Cultural landscape 
             Cultural learning 
             Cultural leveling 
             Cultural memory 
             Cultural pluralism 
             Cultural practice 
             Cultural property 
             Cultural reproduction 
             Cultural system 
             Cultural technology 
             Cultural universal 
             Cultureme 
             Enculturation 
             High- and low-context cultures 
             Interculturality 
             Manuscript culture 
             Material culture 
             Non-material culture 
             Organizational culture 
             Print culture 
             Protoculture 
             Relational mobility 
             Safety culture 
             Technoculture 
             Trans-cultural diffusion 
             Transculturation 
             Visual culture
             
           
         
         
          Politics
          
            
            
             Colonial mentality 
             Consumer capitalism 
             Cross cultural sensitivity 
             Cultural assimilation 
             Cultural attaché 
             Cultural backwardness 
             Cultural Bolshevism 
             Cultural conservatism 
             Cultural contracts 
             Cultural deprivation 
             Cultural diplomacy 
             Cultural environmentalism 
             Cultural exception 
             Cultural feminism 
             Cultural genocide 
             Cultural globalization 
             Cultural hegemony 
             Cultural imperialism 
             Cultural intelligence 
             Cultural liberalism 
             Cultural nationalism 
             Cultural pessimism 
             Cultural policy 
             Cultural racism 
             Cultural radicalism 
             Cultural retention 
             Cultural Revolution 
             Cultural rights 
             Cultural safety 
             Cultural silence 
             Cultural subsidy 
             Cultural Zionism 
             Culture change 
             Culture minister 
             Culture of fear 
             Culture war 
             Deculturalization 
             Dominator culture 
             Interculturalism 
             Monoculturalism 
             Multiculturalism 
              
               Biculturalism
               
             Pluriculturalism 
             Polyculturalism 
             Transculturism
             
           
         
         
          Religions
          
            
            
             Buddhism 
             Christianity 
              
               Catholicism 
               Cultural Christians 
               Protestantism 
               Role of Christianity in civilization 
               Eastern Orthodoxy 
               Mormonism
               
             Cultural Hindus 
             Islam 
              
               Cultural Muslims
               
             Judaism 
             Sikhism
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Animal culture 
             Archaeological culture 
             Bennett scale 
             Cannabis culture 
             Circuit of culture 
             Civilization 
             Coffee culture 
             Cross-cultural 
             Cultural center 
             Cultural competence 
             Cultural critic 
             Cultural determinism 
             Cultural diversity 
             Cultural evolutionism 
             Cultural homogenization 
             Cultural institution 
             Cultural jet lag 
             Cultural lag 
             Cultural literacy 
             Cultural mosaic 
             Cultural movement 
             Cultural mulatto 
             Cultural probe 
             Cultural relativism 
             Culture speculation 
             Cultural tourism 
              
               Pop-culture
               
             Cultural translation 
             Cultural turn 
             Cultural sensibility 
             Culture and menstruation 
             Culture and positive psychology 
             Culture and social cognition 
             Culture gap 
             Culture hero 
             Culture industry 
             Culture shock 
             Culturgen 
             Children's culture 
             Culturalism 
             Cyberculture 
             Death and culture 
             Disability culture 
              
               Deaf culture
               
             Emotions and culture 
             Intercultural communication 
             Intercultural competence 
             Languaculture 
             Living things in culture 
             Media culture 
             Oppositional culture 
             Participatory culture 
             Permission culture 
             Rape culture 
             Remix culture 
             Tea culture 
             Transformation of culture 
             Urban culture 
             Welfare culture 
             Western culture 
             Youth culture
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category 
              Commons 
              WikiProject 
             Changes
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Cultural heritage and historic preservation
           
         
         
          Topics and issues
          
            
            
             Agents of deterioration 
             Archival processing 
             Archaeological science 
             Archaeology 
             Archive 
             Bioarchaeology 
             Calendar (archive) 
             Conservation and restoration of cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration of immovable cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration of movable cultural property 
             Conservation and restoration training 
             Conservation science (cultural property) 
             Collecting 
             Collection (museum) 
             Collection catalog 
             Collections maintenance 
             Collections management 
             Collections management system 
             Cultural heritage 
             Cultural heritage management 
             Cultural property 
             Cultural property documentation 
             Cultural property exhibition 
             Cultural property imaging 
             Cultural property storage 
             Cultural resources management 
             Database preservation 
             Deaccessioning (museum) 
             Digital library 
             Digital photograph restoration 
             Digital preservation 
             Disaster preparedness (cultural property) 
             Film preservation 
             Finding aid 
             Fonds 
             Found in collection 
             Heritage asset 
             Heritage science 
             Inherent vice 
             Intangible cultural heritage 
             Integrated pest management (cultural property) 
             Inventory (library and archive) 
             Inventory (museum) 
             Media preservation 
             Mold control and prevention (library and archive) 
             Museum 
             Optical media preservation 
             Preservation (library and archive) 
             Preservation metadata 
             Preservation survey 
             Provenance 
             Repatriation 
             Sustainable preservation 
             Web archiving
             
           
         
         
          Roles and expertise
          
            
            
             Archivist 
             Art dealer 
             Art handler 
             Auctioneer 
             Collection manager 
             Conservator-restorer 
             Conservation scientist 
             Conservation technician 
             Curator 
             Exhibition designer 
             Mount maker 
             Objects conservator 
             Paintings conservator 
             Photograph conservator 
             Preservationist 
             Registrar (cultural property) 
             Textile conservator
             
           
         
         
          Methods and techniques
          
            
            
             Aging (artwork) 
             Anastylosis 
             Arrested decay 
             Cradling (paintings) 
             Cultural property radiography 
             Detachment of wall paintings 
             Desmet method 
             Display case 
             Digital repository audit method based on risk assessment 
             Historic paint analysis 
             Inpainting 
             Kintsugi 
             Leafcasting 
             Lining of paintings 
             Mass deacidification 
             Overpainting 
             Paleo-inspiration 
             Paper splitting 
             Reconstruction (architecture) 
             Rissverklebung 
             Textile stabilization 
             Transfer of panel paintings 
             UVC-based preservation 
             VisualAudio
             
           
         
         
          Conservation and restoration of immovable  cultural property by item type
          
            
            
             Archaeological sites 
             Frescos 
             Heritage railways 
             Historic gardens 
             Outdoor artworks 
             Outdoor bronze objects 
             Outdoor murals
             
           
         
         
          Conservation and restoration of movable  cultural property by item type
          
            
            
             Aircraft 
             Ancient Greek pottery 
             Bone, horn, and antler objects 
             Books, manuscripts, documents and ephemera 
             Ceramic objects 
             Clocks 
             Copper-based objects 
             Feathers 
             Film 
             Flags and banners 
             Fur objects 
             Glass objects 
             Herbaria 
             Human remains 
             Illuminated manuscripts 
             Insect specimens 
             Iron and steel objects 
             Ivory objects 
             Judaica 
             Lacquerware 
             Leather objects 
             Lighthouses 
             Metals 
             Musical instruments 
             Neon objects 
             New media art 
             Paintings 
             Painting frames 
             Panel paintings 
             Papyrus 
             Parchment 
             Performance art 
             Photographs 
             Photographic plates 
             Plastic objects 
             Rail vehicles 
             Road vehicles 
             Shipwreck artifacts 
             Silver objects 
             South Asian household shrines 
             Stained glass 
             Taxidermy 
             Textiles 
             Tibetan thangkas 
             Time-based media art 
             Totem poles 
             Vinyl discs 
             Woodblock prints 
             Wooden artifacts 
             Wooden furniture
             
           
         
         
          Intangible cultural heritage preservation
          
            
            
             Ancient music 
             Applied folklore 
             Dance notation 
             Early music 
             Endangered language 
             Ethnochoreology 
             Ethnomusicology 
             Ethnopoetics 
             Family folklore 
             Folklore 
             Folk art 
             Folk dance 
             Folk etymology 
             Folk instrument 
             Folk medicine 
             Folk music 
             Folk process 
             Folk play 
             Foodways 
             Folklore studies 
             Heritage language 
             Heritage language learning 
             Indigenous intellectual property 
             Indigenous culture 
             Indigenous language 
             Language death 
             Language preservation 
             Language revitalization 
             Living history 
             Oral history preservation 
             Preservation of meaning 
             Primitive music 
             Tradition preservation 
             Traditional knowledge
             
           
         
         
          Notableprojects
          
            
            
             Conservation issues of Pompeii and Herculaneum 
             Conservation-restoration of Ecce Homo by Elías García Martínez 
             Conservation-restoration of The Gross Clinic by Thomas Eakins 
             Conservation-restoration of Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper 
             Pompeian frescoes 
             Conservation-restoration of the Shroud of Turin 
             Conservation-restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes 
             Conservation-restoration of the Statue of Liberty 
             Conservation-restoration of the H.L. Hunley 
             Conservation response to flood of Arno, Florence 
             Modern and Contemporary Art Research Initiative 
             Preservation Metadata: Implementation Strategies
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
      
       Portal:
       
        
         Society
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cultural_heritage&amp;oldid=1056780885"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Cultural heritage
       Museology
       Cultural studies
       Conservation and restoration of cultural heritage
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 German-language sources (de)
       CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
       CS1 Polish-language sources (pl)
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles containing video clips
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Bân-lâm-gú
       Башҡортса
       Български
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Esperanto
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Italiano
       Jawa
       ქართული
       Kreyòl ayisyen
       Latviešu
       Lietuvių
       Magyar
       Македонски
       მარგალური
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       Patois
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Shqip
       Simple English
       Slovenčina
       Slovenščina
       Српски / srpski
       Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
       Suomi
       Svenska
       தமிழ்
       Татарча/tatarça
       Тоҷикӣ
       Türkçe
       Українська
       Tiếng Việt
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 23 November 2021, at 14:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
