
 
  
   
  Digital asset management - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Digital asset management 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Digital Asset Management)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Digital asset management"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article cites its sources but does not provide page references. You can help to improve it by introducing citations that are more precise. (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Digital Asset Management (DAM) and the implementation of its use as a computer application is required in the collection of digital assets to ensure that the owner, and possibly their delegates, can perform operations on the data files.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Terminology 
        2 Management 
          
          2.1 Creation 
          2.2 Indexing 
          2.3 Workflow 
          2.4 Version control 
          2.5 Access control 
           
        3 Categorization 
        4 Media asset issues 
        5 Types of systems 
        6 See also 
        7 References 
        8 Further reading 
        
       
      Terminology 
      The term media asset management (MAM) may be used in reference to DAM when applied to the sub-set of digital objects commonly considered "media", namely audio recordings, photos, and videos. Any editing process that involves media, especially video, can make use of a MAM to access media components to be edited together, or to be combined with a live feed, in a fluent manner. A MAM typically offers at least one searchable index of the images, audio, and videos it contains constructed from metadata harvested from the images using pattern recognition, or input manually.  
      Management 
      Creation 
      Applications implement digital asset management by importing it from the analog and/or digital domains (by encoding, scanning, optical character recognition, etc.) or by authoring it as new object.  
      Indexing 
      A primary function of a DAM system is to make assets easily available to its users by providing a searchable index that supports retrieval of assets by their content and/or metadata. The cataloging function is usually part of the ingestion process for new assets.  
      Workflow 
      Digital assets will typically have a lifecycle, which may include various states such as creation, approval, live, archived and deleted.  
      Version control 
      Often a DAM system will store earlier versions of a digital asset and allow those to be downloaded or reverted to. Therefore, a DAM system can operate as an advanced type of version control system.  
      Access control 
      Finally, a DAM system typically includes security controls ensuring relevant people have access to assets. This will often involve integration with existing directory services via a technology such as single sign-on.  
      Categorization 
      Smaller DAM systems are used in a particular operational context, for instance in video production systems. The key differentiators between them are the types of input encoders used for creating digital copies of assets to bring them under management, and the output decoders and/or formatters used to make them usable as documents and/or online resources. The metadata of a content item can serve as a guide to the selection of the codec(s) needed to handle the content during processing, and may be of use when applying access control rules to enforce authorization policy. 
      Assets that require particular technology to be used in a workflow need to have their requirements for bandwidth, latency, and access control considered in the design of the tools that create or store them, and in the architecture of the system that distributes and archives them. When not being worked on assets can be held in a DAM in a variety of formats including blob (binary large object in a database) or as a file in a normal file system, that are "cheaper" to store than the form needed during operations on them. This makes it possible to implement a large scale DAM as an assembly of high performance processing systems in a network with a high density storage solution at its center.  
      Media asset issues 
      An asset can exist in several formats and in a sequence of versions. The digital version of the original asset is generally captured in as high a resolution, colour depth, and (if applicable) frame rate as will be needed to ensure that results are of acceptable quality for the end-use. There can also be thumbnail copies of lower quality for use in visual indexing. 
      Metadata for an asset can include its packaging, encoding, provenance, ownership and access rights, and location of original creation. It is used to provide hints to the tools and systems used to work on, or with, the asset about how it should be handled and displayed.  
      Types of systems 
      Digital asset management systems fall into the following classifications:  
      
       Brand management system to enforce brand presentation within an organization by making the approved logos, fonts, and product images easily available. 
       Library or archive for bulk storage of infrequently changing video or photo assets. 
       Production management systems for handling assets being created on the fly for use in live media production or as visual effects for use in gaming applications, TV, or films. 
       Streaming for on-demand delivery of digital content, like TV shows or movies, to end users on behalf of digital retailers.
       
      All of these types will include features for work-flow management, collaboration, project-management, and revision control.  
      See also 
      
       Content management 
       Digital asset 
       Digital library 
       Digital rights management 
       Image organizer, possible presentation layer for a DAM 
       Web content management system, may be a presentation layer for a DAM 
       Enterprise content management
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Theresa Regli (2016). Digital and Marketing Asset Management. Rosenfeld. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-933820-12-5.  
         ^ 
           Jacobsen, Jens; Schlenker, Tilman; Edwards, Lisa (2005). Implementing a Digital Asset Management System: For Animation, Computer Games, and Web Development. Focal Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-240-80665-4.  
         ^ 
           Blanke, Tobias (2014). Digital Asset Ecosystems: Rethinking crowds and clouds. Elsevier. ISBN&nbsp;9781780633824.  
         ^ 
           "Digital asset management". www.ibm.com. Retrieved 2021-10-06.  
         ^ 
           Krogh, Peter (2009). The DAM Book, Second Edition. O'Reilly Media. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-596-52357-2.  
         ^ * 
           Mauthe, Andreas; Thomas, Peter (2004). Professional Content Management Systems: Handling Digital Media Assets. Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;0-470-85542-8.  
         ^ 
           Elizabeth Keathley (2014). Digital Asset Management: Content Architectures, Project Management, and Creating Order out of Media Chaos. APress. ISBN&nbsp;978-1430263777.  
         ^ 
           Diamond, David (2012). DAM Survival Guide: Digital Asset Management Initiative Planning. DAMSurvivalGuide.com. ISBN&nbsp;9781478287667.  
         ^ 
           Austerberry, David (2006). Digital Asset Management, Second Edition. Focal Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-240-80868-1.  
         ^ 
           "Business Management Magazine no 39- Optimizing Digital Asset Management (page 86)". Archived from the original on July 14, 2009. Retrieved July 25, 2019.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        Diamond, David (2012). DAM Survival Guide: Digital Asset Management Initiative Planning. DAMSurvivalGuide.com. 
       
        Krogh, Peter (2009). The DAM Book, Second Edition. O'Reilly Media. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-596-52357-2. 
       
        Austerberry, David (2006). Digital Asset Management, Second Edition. Focal Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-240-80868-1. 
       
        Jacobsen, Jens; Schlenker, Tilman; Edwards, Lisa (2005). Implementing a Digital Asset Management System: For Animation, Computer Games, and Web Development. Focal Press. ISBN&nbsp;0-240-80665-4. 
       
        Mauthe, Andreas; Thomas, Peter (2004). Professional Content Management Systems: Handling Digital Media Assets. Wiley. ISBN&nbsp;0-470-85542-8. 
       
        Elizabeth Keathley (2014). Digital Asset Management: Content Architectures, Project Management, and Creating Order out of Media Chaos. APress. ISBN&nbsp;978-1430263777.
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Digital_asset_management&amp;oldid=1064231658"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Information technology management
       Content management systems
       Document management systems
       Records management
       Asset management
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles needing additional references from January 2019
       All articles needing additional references
       Articles lacking page references from January 2019
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Español
       Français
       Italiano
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Türkçe
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 7 January 2022, at 08:37&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
