
 
  
   
  Records management - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Records management 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
    
     &nbsp;&nbsp;(Redirected from Records Management)
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      Records management, also known as records and information management, is an organizational function devoted to the  management of information in an organization throughout its life cycle, from the time of creation or receipt to its eventual disposition. This includes identifying, classifying, storing, securing, retrieving, tracking and destroying or permanently preserving records. The ISO 15489-1: 2001 standard ("ISO 15489-1:2001") defines records management as " field of management responsible for the efficient and systematic control of the creation, receipt, maintenance, use and disposition of records, including the processes for capturing and maintaining evidence of and information about business activities and transactions in the form of records". 
      An organization's records preserve aspects of institutional memory. In determining how long to retain records, their capacity for re-use is important. Many are kept as evidence of activities, transactions, and decisions. Others document what happened and why. The purpose of records management is part of an organization's broader function of governance, risk management, and compliance and is primarily concerned with managing the evidence of an organization's activities as well as the reduction or mitigation of risk associated with it. Recent research shows linkages between records management and accountability in governance.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Concepts of record 
        2 Key records management terminology 
        3 Records management theory 
          
          3.1 Records life-cycle 
          3.2 Records continuum theory 
           
        4 Records management practices and concepts 
          
          4.1 Defensible solutions 
          4.2 Classification 
            
            4.2.1 Enterprise records 
            4.2.2 Industry records 
            4.2.3 Legal hold records 
             
          4.3 Records retention schedule 
           
        5 Managing physical records 
        6 Managing digital records 
        7 Current issues 
        8 Education and certification 
        9 Electronic records management systems 
          
          9.1 Commercial records centers 
           
        10 See also 
        11 References 
        12 External links 
        
       
      Concepts of record 
      The concept of record is variously defined. The ISO 15489-1:2016 defines records as "information created, received, and maintained as evidence and as an asset by an organization or person, in pursuit of legal obligations or in the transaction of business". While there are many purposes of and benefits to records management, as this definition highlights, a key feature of records is their ability to serve as evidence of an event. Proper records management can help preserve this feature of records. 
      Recent and comprehensive studies have defined records as "persistent representations of activities" as recorded or created by participants or observers. This transactional view emphasizes the importance of context and process in the determination and meaning of records. In contrast, previous definitions have emphasized the evidential and informational properties of records. In organizational contexts, records are materials created or received by an organization in the transaction of business, or in pursuit of or in compliance with legal obligations. This organizational definition of record stems from the early theorization of archives as organic aggregations of records, that is "the written documents, drawings and printed matter, officially received or produced by an administrative body or one of its officials".  
      Key records management terminology 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Not all documents are records. A record is a document consciously retained as evidence of an action. Records management systems generally distinguish between records and non-records (convenience copies, rough drafts, duplicates), which do not need formal management. Many systems, especially for electronic records, require documents to be formally declared as a record so they can be managed. Once declared, a record cannot be changed and can only be disposed of within the rules of the system. 
      Records may be covered by access controls to regulate who can access them and under what circumstances. Physical controls may be used to keep confidential records secure – personnel files, for instance, which hold sensitive personal data, may be held in a locked cabinet with a control log to track access. Digital records systems may include role-based access controls, allowing permissions (to view, change and/or delete) to be allocated to staff depending on their role in the organisation. An audit trail showing all access and changes can be maintained to ensure the integrity of the records. 
      Just as the records of the organization come in a variety of formats, the storage of records can vary throughout the organization. File maintenance may be carried out by the owner, designee, a records repository, or clerk. Records may be managed in a centralized location, such as a records center or repository, or the control of records may be decentralized across various departments and locations within the entity. Records may be formally and discretely identified by coding and housed in folders specifically designed for optimum protection and storage capacity, or they may be casually identified and filed with no apparent indexing. Organizations that manage records casually find it difficult to access and retrieve information when needed. The inefficiency of filing maintenance and storage systems can prove to be costly in terms of wasted space and resources expended searching for records. 
      An inactive record is a record that is no longer needed to conduct current business but is being preserved until it meets the end of its retention period, such as when a project ends, a product line is retired, or the end of a fiscal reporting period is reached. These records may hold business, legal, fiscal, or historical value for the entity in the future and, therefore, are required to be maintained for a short or permanent duration. Records are managed according to the retention schedule. Once the life of a record has been satisfied according to its predetermined period and there are no legal holds pending, it is authorized for final disposition, which may include destruction, transfer, or permanent preservation. 
      A disaster recovery plan is a written and approved course of action to take after a disaster strikes that details how an organization will restore critical business functions and reclaim damaged or threatened records. 
      An active record is a record needed to perform current operations, subject to frequent use, and usually located near the user. In the past, 'records management' was sometimes used to refer only to the management of records which were no longer in everyday use but still needed to be kept – "semi-current" or "inactive" records, often stored in basements or offsite. More modern usage tends to refer to the entire "lifecycle" of records – from the point of creation right through until their eventual disposal. 
      The format and media of records is generally irrelevant for the purposes of records management from the perspective that records must be identified and managed, regardless of their form. The ISO considers management of both physical and electronic records. Also, section DL1.105 of the United States Department of Defense standard DoD 5015.02-STD (2007) defines Records Management as "the planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other managerial activities involving the life cycle of information, including creation, maintenance (use, storage, retrieval), and disposal, regardless of media".  
      Records management theory 
      Records life-cycle 
      
      
       Main article: Records life-cycle
       
      The records life-cycle consists of discrete phases covering the life span of a record from its creation to its final disposition. In the creation phase, records growth is expounded by modern electronic systems. Records will continue to be created and captured by the organization at an explosive rate as it conducts the business of the organization. Correspondence regarding a product failure is written for internal leadership, financial statements and reports are generated for public and regulatory scrutiny, the old corporate logo is retired, and a new one – including color scheme and approved corporate font – takes its place in the organization's history. 
      Examples of records phases include those for creation of a record, modification of a record, movement of a record through its different states while in existence, and destruction of a record. 
      Throughout the records life cycle, issues such as security, privacy, disaster recovery, emerging technologies, and mergers are addressed by the records and information management professional responsible for organizational programs. Records and information management professionals are instrumental in controlling and safeguarding the information assets of the entity. They understand how to manage the creation, access, distribution, storage, and disposition of records and information in an efficient and cost-effective manner using records and information management methodology, principles, and best practices in compliance with records and information laws and regulations.  
      Records continuum theory 
      
      
       Main article: Records Continuum Model
       
      The records continuum theory is an abstract conceptual model that helps to understand and explore recordkeeping activities in relation to multiple contexts over space and time.  
      Records management practices and concepts 
      A records manager is someone who is responsible for records management in an organization. 
      Section 4 of the ISO 15489-1:2001 states that records management includes:  
      
       setting policies and standards 
       assigning responsibilities and authorities 
       establishing and promulgating procedures and guidelines 
       providing a range of services relating to the management and use of records 
       designing, implementing and administering specialized systems for managing records 
       integrating records management into business systems and processes
       
      Thus, the practice of records management may involve:  
      
       planning the information needs of an organization 
       identifying information requiring capture 
       creating, approving, and enforcing policies and practices regarding records, including their organization and disposal 
       developing a records storage plan, which includes the short and long-term housing of physical records and digital information 
       identifying, classifying, and storing records 
       coordinating access to records internally and outside of the organization, balancing the requirements of business confidentiality, data privacy, and public access. 
       identification and maintenance of records per a specified retention period 
       executing a retention policy on the disposal of records which are no longer required for operational reasons; according to organizational policies, statutory requirements, and other regulations this may involve either their destruction or permanent preservation in an archive.
       
      Records-management principles and automated records-management systems aid in the capture, classification, and ongoing management of records throughout their lifecycle. ARMA International defines records management as "the field of management responsible for establishing and implementing policies, systems, and procedures to capture, create, access, distribute, use, store, secure, retrieve, and ensure disposition of an organization's records and information". Such a system may be paper-based (such as index cards as used in a library), or may involve a computer system, such as an electronic records-management application.  
      Defensible solutions 
      A defensible solution is one that can be supported with clearly documented policies, processes and procedures that drive how and why work is performed, as well as one that has clearly documented proof of behavior patterns, proving that an organization follows such documented constraints to the best of their ability. 
      While defensibility applies to all aspects of records life cycle, it is considered most important in the context of records destruction, where it is known as "defensible disposition" or "defensible destruction," and helps an organization explicitly justify and prove things like who destroys records, why they destroy them, how they destroy them, when they destroy them, and where they destroy them.  
      Classification 
      Records managers use classification or categorization of record types to logically organize records created and maintained by an institution. Such classifications assist in functions such as creation, organization, storage, retrieval, movement, and destruction of records. 
      At the highest level of classification are physical versus electronic records. (This is disputable; records are defined as such regardless of media. ISO 15489 and other best practices promulgate a functions based, rather than media based classification, because the law defines records as certain kinds of information regardless of media.) 
      Physical records are those records, such as paper, that can be touched and which take up physical space. 
      Electronic records, also often referred to as digital records, are those records that are generated with and used by information technology devices. 
      Classification of records is achieved through the design, maintenance, and application of taxonomies, which allow records managers to perform functions such as the categorization, tagging, segmenting, or grouping of records according to various traits.  
      Enterprise records 
      Enterprise records represent those records that are common to most enterprises, regardless of their function, purpose, or sector. Such records often revolve around the day-to-day operations of an enterprise and cover areas such as but not limited litigation, employee management, consultant or contractor management, customer engagements, purchases, sales, and contracts. 
      The types of enterprises that produce and work with such records include but are not limited to for-profit companies, non-profit companies, and government agencies.  
      Industry records 
      Industry records represent those records that are common and apply only to a specific industry or set of industries. Examples include but are not limited to medical industry records (e.g., the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), pharmaceutical industry records, and food industry records.  
      Legal hold records 
      Legal hold records are those records that are mandated, usually by legal counsel or compliance personnel, to be held for a period of time, either by a government or by an enterprise, and for the purposes of addressing potential issues associated with compliance audits and litigation. Such records are assigned Legal Hold traits that are in addition to classifications which are as a result of enterprise or industry classifications. 
      Legal hold data traits may include but are not limited to things such as legal hold flags (e.g. Legal Hold = True or False), the organization driving the legal hold, descriptions of why records must be legally held, what period of time records must be held for, and the hold location.  
      Records retention schedule 
      A records retention schedule is a document, often developed using archival appraisal concepts and analysis of business and legal contexts within the intended jurisdictions, that outlines how long certain types of records need to be retained for before they can be destroyed. For the retention schedule to be utilized a number of guidelines need to be put in place so as to be considered for implementation.  
      Managing physical records 
      Managing physical records involves different disciplines or capabilities and may draw on a variety of forms of expertise.  
      
       
        Identifying records
        
       
        If an item is presented as a legal record, it needs to be authenticated. Forensic experts may need to examine a document or artifact to determine that it is not a forgery, and that any damage, alteration, or missing content is documented. In extreme cases, items may be subjected to a microscope, x-ray, radiocarbon dating or chemical analysis. This level of authentication is rare but requires that special care be taken in the creation and retention of the records of an organization.
       
       
      
       
        Storing records
        
       
        Records must be stored in such a way that they are accessible and safeguarded against environmental damage. A typical paper document may be stored in a filing cabinet in an office. However, some organisations employ file rooms with specialized environmental controls including temperature and humidity. Vital records may need to be stored in a disaster-resistant safe or vault to protect against fire, flood, earthquakes and conflict. In extreme cases, the item may require both disaster-proofing and public access, such as the original, signed US Constitution. Civil engineers may need to be consulted to determine that the file room can effectively withstand the weight of shelves and file cabinets filled with paper; historically, some military vessels were designed to take into account the weight of their operating procedures on paper as part of their ballast equation (modern record-keeping technologies have transferred much of that information to electronic storage). In addition to on-site storage of records, many organizations operate their own off-site records centers or contract with commercial records centres.
       
       
      
       
        Retrieval of records
        
       
        In addition to being able to store records, enterprises must also establish the proper capabilities for retrieval of records, in the event they are needed for a purpose such as an audit or litigation, or for the case of destruction. Record retrieval capabilities become complex when dealing with electronic records, especially when they have not been adequately tagged or classified for discovery.
       
       
      
       
        Circulating records
        
       
        Tracking the record while it is away from the normal storage area is referred to as circulation. Often this is handled by simple written recording procedures. However, many modern records environments use a computerized system involving bar code scanners, or radio-frequency identification technology (RFID) to track the movement of the records. These can also be used for periodic auditing to identify the unauthorized movement of the record.
       
       
      
       
        Disposal of records
        
       
        Disposal of records does not always mean destruction. It can also include transfer to a historical archive, museum, or private individual. The large volumes of paper records and the inaccessibility of active paper records are some of the reasons that drive organizations to dispose or destroy records. Destruction of records ought to be authorized by law, statute, regulation, or operating procedure, and the records should be disposed of with care to avoid inadvertent disclosure of information. The process needs to be well-documented, starting with a records retention schedule and policies and procedures that have been approved at the highest level. An inventory of the records disposed of should be maintained, including certification that they have been destroyed. Records should never simply be discarded as refuse. Most organizations use processes including pulverization, paper shredding or incineration.
       
       
      Commercially available products can manage records through all processes active, inactive, archival, retention scheduling and disposal. Some also utilize RFID technology for the tracking of physical file.  
      Managing digital records 
      The general principles of records management apply to records in any format. Digital records, however, raise specific issues. It is more difficult to ensure that the content, context and structure of records is preserved and protected when the records do not have a physical existence. This has important implications for the authenticity, reliability, and trustworthiness of records. 
      Much research is being conducted on the management of digital records. The International Research on Permanent Authentic Records in Electronic Systems (InterPARES) Project is one example of such an initiative. Based at the School of Library, Archival and Information Studies at the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the InterPARES Project is a collaborative project between researchers all across the world committed to developing theories and methodologies to ensure the reliability, accuracy, and authenticity of digital records. 
      Functional requirements for computer systems to manage digital records have been produced by the US Department of Defense, The United Kingdom's National Archives and the European Commission, whose MoReq (Model Requirements for the Management of Electronic Records) specification has been translated into at least twelve languages funded by the European Commission. 
      Particular concerns exist about the ability to access and read digital records over time, since the rapid pace of change in technology can make the software used to create the records obsolete, leaving the records unreadable. A considerable amount of research is being undertaken to address this, under the heading of digital preservation. The Public Record Office Victoria (PROV) located in Melbourne, Australia published the Victorian Electronic Records Strategy (VERS) which includes a standard for the preservation, long-term storage and access to permanent electronic records. The VERS standard has been adopted by all Victorian Government departments. A digital archive has been established by PROV to enable the general public to access permanent records. Archives New Zealand is also setting up a digital archive.  
      
       
        Electronic tax records
       
       
      Electronic Tax Records are computer-based/non-paper versions of records required by tax agencies like the Internal Revenue Service. There is substantial confusion about what constitutes acceptable digital records for the IRS, as the concept is relatively new. The subject is discussed in Publication 583 and Bulletin 1997-13, but not in specific detail. 
      Businesses and individuals wishing to convert their paper records into scanned copies may be at risk if they do so. For example, it is unclear if an IRS auditor would accept a JPEG, PNG, or PDF format scanned copy of a purchase receipt for a deducted expense item.  
      Current issues 
      
       
        Compliance and legal issues
       
       
      While public administration, healthcare and the legal profession have a long history of records management, the corporate sector has generally shown less interest. This has changed in recent years due to new compliance requirements, driven in part by scandals such as the Enron/Andersen affair and more recent problems at Morgan Stanley. Corporate records compliance issues including retention period requirements and the need to disclose information as a result of litigation have come to be seen as important. Statutes such as the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act have resulted in greater standardization of records management practices. Since the 1990s the shift towards electronic records has seen a need for close working relations between records managers and IT managers, particularly including the legal aspects, focused on compliance and risk management.  
      
       
        Security
       
       
      Privacy, data protection, and identity theft have become issues of increasing interest. The role of the records manager in the protection of an organization's records has grown as a result. The need to ensure personal information is not retained unnecessarily has brought greater focus to retention schedules and records disposal.  
      
       
        Transparency
       
       
      The increased importance of transparency and accountability in public administration, marked by the widespread adoption of Freedom of Information laws, has led to a focus on the need to manage records so that they can be easily accessed by the public. For instance, in the United Kingdom, Section 46 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 required the government to publish a Code of Practice on Records Management for public authorities. Similarly, European Union legislation on Data Protection and Environmental Information, requiring organisations to disclose information on request, create a need for effective management of such records.  
      
       
        Adoption and implementation
       
       
      Implementing required changes to organisational culture is a major challenge, since records management is often seen as an unnecessary or low priority administrative task that can be performed at the lowest levels within an organization. Reputational damage caused by poor records management has demonstrated that records management is the responsibility of all individuals within an organization. 
      An issue that has been very controversial among records managers has been the uncritical adoption of Electronic document and records management systems.  
      
       
        Impact of internet and social media
       
       
      Another issue of great interest to records managers is the impact of the internet and related social media, such as wikis, blogs, forums, and companies such as Facebook and Twitter, on traditional records management practices, principles, and concepts, since many of these tools allow rapid creation and dissemination of records and, often, even in anonymous form.  
      
       
        Records life cycle management
       
       
      A difficult challenge for many enterprises is tied to the tracking of records through their entire information life cycle so that it's clear, at all times, where a record exists or if it still exists at all. The tracking of records through their life cycles allows records management staff to understand when and how to apply records related rules, such as rules for legal hold or destruction.  
      
       
        Conversion of paper records to electronic form
       
       
      As the world becomes more digital in nature, an ever-growing issue for the records management community is the conversion of existing or incoming paper records to electronic form. Such conversions are most often performed with the intent of saving storage costs, storage space, and in hopes of reducing records retrieval time. 
      Tools such as document scanners, optical character recognition software, and electronic document management systems are used to facilitate such conversions.  
      Education and certification 
      Many colleges and universities offer degree programs in library and information sciences which cover records management. Furthermore, there are professional organizations which provide a separate, non-degreed, professional certification for practitioners, the Certified Records Manager designation or CRM.  
      Electronic records management systems 
      An Electronic Document and Records Management System is a computer program or set of programs used to track and store records. The term is distinguished from imaging and document management systems that specialize in paper capture and document management respectively. Electronic records management Systems commonly provide specialized security and auditing functionality tailored to the needs of records managers. 
      The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) has endorsed the U.S. Department of Defense standard 5015.2 as an "adequate and appropriate basis for addressing the basic challenges of managing records in the automated environment that increasingly characterizes the creation and use of records". Records Management Vendors can be certified as compliant with the DoD 5015.2-STD after verification from the Joint Interoperability Test Command which builds test case procedures, writes detailed and summary final reports on 5015.2-certified products, and performs on-site inspection of software. 
      The National Archives in the UK has published two sets of functional requirements to promote the development of the electronic records management software market (1999 and 2002). It ran a program to evaluate products against the 2002 requirements. While these requirements were initially formulated in collaboration with central government, they have been taken up with enthusiasm by many parts of the wider public sector in the UK and in other parts of the world. The testing program has now closed; The National Archives is no longer accepting applications for testing. The National Archives 2002 requirements remain current. 
      The European Commission has published "MoReq", the Model Requirements for Electronic Records and Document Management in 2001. Although not a formal standard, it is widely regarded and referred to as a standard. This was funded by the Commission's IDA program, and was developed at the instigation of the DLM Forum. A major update of MoReq, known as MoReq2, was published in February 2008. This too was initiated by the DLM Forum and funded by the European Commission, on this occasion by its IDABC program (the successor to IDA). A software testing framework and an XML schema accompany MoReq2; a software compliance testing regime was agreed at the DLM Forum conference in Toulouse in December 2008. 
      The National Archives of Australia (NAA) published the Functional Specifications for Electronic Records Management Systems Software (ERMS), and the associated Guidelines for Implementing the Functional Specifications for Electronic Records Management Systems Software, as exposure drafts in February 2006. 
      Archives New Zealand published a 'discretionary best practice' Electronic Recordkeeping Systems Standard (Standard 5) in June 2005, issued under the authority of Section 27 of the Public Records Act 2005.  
      Commercial records centers 
      Commercial records centers are facilities which provide services for the storage for paper records for organizations. In some cases, they also offer storage for records maintained in electronic formats. Commercial records centers provide high density storage for paper records and some offer climate controlled storage for sensitive non-paper and critical (vital) paper media. There is a trade organization for commercial records centers (for example, PRISM International), however, not all service providers are members.  
      See also 
      
       Corporate memory 
       Design and implementation of record keeping systems (DIRKS) 
       Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software Applications (DoD 5015.2) 
       Document imaging 
       Document management 
       Enterprise content management (ECM) or Content management 
       Information and Records Management Society 
       Machine-Readable Documents 
       Paperless office 
       Picture archiving and communication system 
       Records life cycle 
       Records management taxonomy 
       Records manager 
       Relational database management system 
       Retention schedule 
       United Kingdom National Archives, The 
       United States National Archives and Records Administration
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ ARMA International. "Glossary of Records and Information Management Terms, 3rd Edition". ARMA International. Archived from the original on 2013-09-28.  
        ^ a b c d 
          International Organization for Standardization – ISO (2001). "ISO 15489-1:2001 – Information and Documentation – Records Management – Part 1: General". International Organization for Standardization – ISO. Archived from the original on 2014-04-02.  
        ^ 
          Megill, Kenneth (2005). Corporate Memory: Records and Information Management in the Knowledge Age (2nd&nbsp;ed.). Munich: K.G. Saur/Thomson.  
        ^ 
          Anthony Tarantino (2008-02-25). Governance, Risk, and Compliance to the Handbook. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-470-09589-8.  
        ^ David, R. (2017). Contribution of records management to audit opinions and accountability in government. South African Journal of Information Management, 19(1), 1-14.https://doi.org/10.4102/sajim.v19i1.771  
        ^ 
          Yeo, Geoffrey (2007). "Concepts of Record (1): Evidence, Information, and Persistent Representations". American Archivist. 70 (2): 315–343. doi:10.17723/aarc.70.2.u327764v1036756q.  
        ^ 
          Schellenberg, T. R. (October 1956). "The Appraisal of Modern Records". Bulletins of the National Archives (8). Archived from the original on 2016-11-24.  
        ^ 
          "Glossary of Records and Information Management Terms, 3rd Edition". ARMA International. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved September 3, 2016.  
        ^ 
          Pearce-Moses, Richard. "Record". Glossary of Archival and Records Terminology. Society of American Archivists. Archived from the original on 24 November 2016. Retrieved 23 November 2016.  
        ^ 
          Muller, S.; Feith, J. A.; Fruin, R (1968). Arthur H. Leavitt (ed.). Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives (1898) (2nd&nbsp;ed.). New York.  
        ^ 
          Cook, Terry (1997). "What Is Past Is Prologue: A History of Archival Ideas Since 1898, and the Future Paradigm Shift". Archivaria. 43: 17–63. Archived from the original on 24 November 2016. Retrieved 23 November 2016.  
        ^ a b 
          Assistant Secretary of Defence for Networks and Information Integration, Department of Defence Chief Information Officer (April 25, 2007). "United States Department of Defense Standard 5015.02 (DoD Std 5012.02), Electronic Records Management Software Applications Design Criteria Standard" (PDF). United States Department of Defense – US DOD. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-02-22.  
        ^ 
          "Records &amp; Information Management (RIM) - ARMA International". www.arma.org. Retrieved 2020-03-07.  
        ^ 
          Hale, Judith (December 2011). Performance-Based Certification: How to Design a Valid, Defensible, Cost-Effective Program. John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-118-02724-0. Archived from the original on 2013-09-27.  
        ^ 
          Hulme, Tony (June 2012). "Information Governance: Sharing the IBM approach". Business Information Review. 29 (2): 99–104. doi:10.1177/0266382112449221. S2CID&nbsp;154276859.  
        ^ 
          Caravaca, Maria Mata (May 2017). "Elements and Relationships within a records classification scheme". JLIS.it. 8 (2): 19–33.  
        ^ 
          Jeremy C. Maxwell; Annie I. Antón; Peter Swire; Maria Riaz; Christopher M. McCraw (June 2012). "A legal cross-references taxonomy for reasoning about compliance requirements". Requirements Engineering. 17 (2): 99–115. doi:10.1007/s00766-012-0152-5. S2CID&nbsp;15603509.  
        ^ https://www.ica.org/sites/default/files/SPA_2008_Guidelines_Developing-a-retention-schedule_EN.pdf  
        ^ 
          European Commission (2011). MoReq2010, modular requirements for records systems, Core services &amp; plug-in modules, version 1.1, Volume 1. European Commission. doi:10.2792/2045. ISBN&nbsp;978-92-79-18519-9.  
        ^ 
          "Records management code". The National Archives. Archived from the original on 2016-02-02.  
        ^ https://www.archives.gov/records_management/policy_and_guidance/automated_recordkeeping_requirements.html Archived April 9, 2005, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ http://jitc.fhu.disa.mil/recmgt/register.html Archived March 16, 2005, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/electronicrecords/function.htm Archived February 13, 2006, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/2303/5644 Archived December 25, 2007, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2009-02-10. Retrieved 2008-12-20.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ http://www.eneclann.ie/Records_Management/legislation_standards.html Archived February 5, 2009, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ 
          "The Society of Qualified Archivists: The Hidden Hand of the Malvine Project". thesocietyofqualifiedarchivists.blogspot.com. Archived from the original on 17 July 2009. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
        ^ Negotiating the RM standards maze Archived November 11, 2007, at the Wayback Machine  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2009-02-10. Retrieved 2008-12-20.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) (in French)  
        ^ 
          "Home - MoReq2". www.moreq2.eu. Archived from the original on 19 July 2011. Retrieved 9 May 2018.  
        ^ 
          "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2008-03-02. Retrieved 2008-03-18.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
        ^ 
          National Archives of Australia. "Electronic document and records management system (EDRMS)". National Archives of Australia. Archived from the original on 2011-10-06.  
        ^ Public Records Act 2005 Archived 2008-10-18 at the Wayback Machine  
       
       
      External links 
      
       ARMA's generally accepted recordkeeping principles 
       Records Management Listserv
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Management
           
         
         
          
            
            
             Outline of business management 
             Index of management articles
             
           
         
         
          By type of organization
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Association 
             Business 
              
               Restaurant
               
             Healthcare 
             Military 
             Public
             
           
         
         
          By focus (within an organization)
          
           
           
            
             
              By scope
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Strategic(top-level)
                  
                    
                    
                     Capability 
                     Change 
                     Communication 
                     Financial 
                     Innovation 
                     Performance 
                     Risk 
                     Systems
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  By component
                  
                    
                    
                     Facility 
                     Product 
                      
                       Product lifecycle 
                       Brand
                       
                     Program 
                     Project 
                      
                       Construction
                      
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
             
              By activity ordepartment managed
              
               
               
                
                 
                  Line
                  
                    
                    
                     Marketing 
                     Operations/production 
                      
                       Process 
                       Quality
                       
                     Sales
                     
                   
                 
                 
                  Staff
                  
                    
                    
                     Accounting 
                     Office 
                     Records
                     
                   
                 
                
               
               
             
             
              By aspect orrelationship
              
                
                
                 Customer relationship 
                 Engineering 
                 Logistics 
                 Perception 
                 Supply chain 
                 Talent
                 
               
             
             
              By problem
              
                
                
                 Conflict 
                 Crisis 
                 Stress
                 
               
             
             
              By resource
              
                
                
                 Environmental resource 
                 Field inventory 
                 Human resources 
                 Information 
                 Information technology 
                 Knowledge 
                 Land 
                 Materials 
                 Skills 
                 Technology 
                 Time
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Managementpositions
          
            
            
             Interim 
             Middle 
             Senior
             
           
         
         
          Methodsand approaches
          
            
            
             Adhocracy 
             Collaborative method 
             Distributed 
             Earned value management 
             Evidence-based management 
             Full Range of Leadership Model 
             Management by objectives 
             Management style 
             Macromanagement 
             Micromanagement 
             Scientific management 
             Social entrepreneurship 
             Team building 
             Virtual management
             
           
         
         
          Management skillsand activities
          
            
            
             Decision-making 
             Forecasting 
             Leadership
             
           
         
         
          Pioneers andscholars
          
            
            
             Peter Drucker 
             Eliyahu M. Goldratt 
             Oliver E. Williamson
             
           
         
         
          Education
          
            
            
             Association of Technology, Management, and Applied Engineering 
             Business school 
             Certified Business Manager 
             Chartered Management Institute 
             Critical management studies 
             Degrees 
              
               Bachelor of Business Administration 
               Master of Business Administration 
               PhD in management
               
             Organizational studies
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Administration 
             Collaboration 
             Corporate governance 
             Executive compensation 
             Management consulting 
             Management control 
             Management cybernetics 
             Management development 
             Management fad 
             Management system 
             Managerial economics 
             Managerial psychology 
             Managerialism 
             Organization development 
             Organizational behavior management 
             Pointy-haired Boss 
             Williamson's model of managerial discretion
             
           
         
         
          
           
             Systems science portal
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             United States 
             Czech Republic
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Records_management&amp;oldid=1064476990"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Records management
       Information technology management
       Content management systems
       Public records
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with limited geographic scope from March 2016
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2015
       Articles with unsourced statements from March 2009
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NKC identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Čeština
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Português
       Русский
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Türkçe
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 8 January 2022, at 15:31&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
