
 
  
   
   
  On Inquiry: Human Concept Formation and Construction of Meaning through Library and Information Science Intermediation 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
     Skip to main content
     
      
       
        
         
          
          
         
         
          Open Access Publications from the University of California
         
        
         
          
           
            Search eScholarship
            
           
           
            Refine Search
            
             All of eScholarship
             This Series
             
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
      <div class="
      c-subheader
      has-banner
      is-wide
      has-campus-label
      is-black
    ">
       School of InformationUC Berkeley
       
        Deposit
        ManageSubmissions
        
       
      
      
       
        
         Menu
         
          Unit Home
          Policies
          Submission Guidelines
         
        
       
       
        
       
      
      
       
        eScholarship
        UC Berkeley
        School of Information
        Recent Work
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           Download PDF
           
            
            
             
              Main
               
                PDF
               
             
            
           
          
          
           Share
           
            
             EmailFacebookTwitter
            
           
          
         
        
        
         
          On Inquiry: Human Concept Formation and Construction of Meaning through Library and Information Science Intermediation
         
        
         2007
         
          Author(s): Konrad, Allan 
          et al.
         
        
        
         
          ...Main ContentMetricsAuthor &amp; Article Info
         
         
          
           
           
            Abstract
            
             Library and Information Science (LIS) is centrally concerned with providing instruments (documents, organization, bibliographies, indexes) to enable people to become better informed through use of documents. The relationship between how people become informed and LIS intermediation, the Basic Relationship, is fundamental to the theory, practice, and professional education of LIS.
             This Basic Relationship and how it is understood in the field is investigated through analysis of selected LIS texts according to criteria derived from principles of Assimilation Theory, grounded in educational psychology, integrated with complementary ideas from the cognate fields of ancient rhetoric, cognitive linguistics, philosophy, and communications studies. These criteria were applied in the analysis of 413 LIS texts. Distinct from the "interdisciplinary" trend in our field, to utilize ideas from other fields as LIS concepts, here, ideas from other fields are used to reveal LIS core concepts that are innate and uniquely central to LIS.
             The primary finding is that LIS texts express dissonance with Assimilation Theory to a small extent (5.6%), consonance with Assimilation Theory to a small extent (5.6%), and silence to most Assimilation Theory criteria (88.8%). Overall, LIS theory, practice, and education are found to be not consonant with principles of Assimilation Theory.
             This primary finding leads to recommendations (Part IV) for a path to an Assimilation Theory-consonant LIS comprised of: (1) conceptual indexing as a complement to present indexing and information service, (2) constructive retrieval (CR) as an alternative to information retrieval (IR), (3) an LIS curriculum and research program grounded upon a core concern of virtually all facets of the field of information: humans becoming informed (constructing meaning) via intermediation between inquirers and instrumented records, and (4) core concepts that differentiate the field from all others. A set of skills (5) common to researchers, service providers, students, and educators in the field is described.
             These recommendations can have a favorable impact in two ways: (1) inquirers have the benefit of a "retrieval" paradigm that takes into account their prior knowledge (as urged by Ausubel), and (2) important explanations never apparently known to any specific person might be discovered by detection of explanatory concept paths among disjunct literatures as shown through a worked example of conceptual indexing and constructive retrieval applied to Swanson's discovery of "undiscovered public knowledge" associated with dietary fish oil and Raynaud's disease.
            
           
           
            Main Content
            
             Download PDF to ViewView Larger
            
            
             For improved accessibility of PDF content, download the file to your device.
            
            
              
               
                
                 
                
                
                 
                  
                    Thumbnails   Document Outline   Attachments  
                   
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                  
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     Previous  
                      Next  
                    
                   
                   
                    Highlight all 
                    Match case 
                   
                   
                    Whole words  
                   
                    
                   
                   
                  
                    Presentation Mode   Open   Print   Download   Current View  
                     Go to First Page   Go to Last Page  
                     Rotate Clockwise   Rotate Counterclockwise  
                     Text Selection Tool   Hand Tool  
                     Vertical Scrolling   Horizontal Scrolling   Wrapped Scrolling  
                     No Spreads   Odd Spreads   Even Spreads  
                     Document Properties…  
                   
                   
                  
                   
                    
                      Toggle Sidebar  
                       Find  
                       Previous  
                        Next  
                      
                       
                     
                      Presentation Mode   Open   Print   Download   Current View  
                       Tools  
                     
                     
                       Zoom Out  
                        Zoom In  
                        Automatic Zoom Actual Size Page Fit Page Width  50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 200% 300% 400%   
                     
                    
                    
                     
                      
                      
                     
                    
                   
                  
                  
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
                  
                   
                  
                  
                     More Information   Less Information  
                   
                    Close  
                   
                    
                  
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    
                    Enter the password to open this PDF file: 
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    Cancel OK 
                    
                   
                  
                  
                   
                    File name: 
                    - 
                    
                    File size: 
                    - 
                    
                    
                    Title: 
                    - 
                    
                    Author: 
                    - 
                    
                    Subject: 
                    - 
                    
                    Keywords: 
                    - 
                    
                    Creation Date: 
                    - 
                    
                    Modification Date: 
                    - 
                    
                    Creator: 
                    - 
                    
                    
                    PDF Producer: 
                    - 
                    
                    PDF Version: 
                    - 
                    
                    Page Count: 
                    - 
                    
                    Page Size: 
                    - 
                    
                    
                    Fast Web View: 
                    - 
                    
                    Close 
                    
                   
                   
                  
                   
                    Preparing document for printing… 
                    
                     0% 
                    
                    Cancel 
                    
                   
                      
                  
                 
                
                
             
            
           
          
          
         
        
       
       
        
         
          Jump To
         
         
          Article
          
           Abstract
           Main Content
          
          
           Metrics
           Author &amp; Article Info
          
         
        
        
         
          
           Related Items
          
          
           
              
               Information-intensive innovation: the changing role of the private firm in the research ecosystem through the study of biosensed data
              
            
             
              Sedenberg, Elaine M
              &nbsp;...
             
            
           
              
               Values by Design Imaginaries: Exploring Values Work in UX Practice
              
            
             
              Wong, Richmond Y
              &nbsp;...
             
            
           
              
               Emotional Meaning Making with Data
              
            
             
              Howell, Noura
              &nbsp;...
             
            
           
              
               Designing Automated Assistants for Visual Data Exploration
              
            
             
              Lee, Doris Jung-Lin
              &nbsp;...
             
            
           
              
               Calling for a Plurality of Perspectives on Design Futuring: An Un-Manifesto
              
            
             
              Howell, Noura; 
              Schulte, Britta F.; 
              Twigger Holroyd, Amy; 
              Fatás Arana, Rocío; 
              Sharma, Sumita; 
              Eden, Grace
              &nbsp;...
             
            
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Top
      
      
       
        
         Home
         About eScholarship
         Campus Sites
         UC Open Access Policy
         eScholarship Publishing
         Accessibility
         Privacy Statement
         Site Policies
         Terms of Use
         Admin Login
         Help
        
       
       
        
       
       
        
       
       
        Powered by the
        California Digital Library
        Copyright © 2017
        The Regents of the University of California
       
      
     
    
   
   
   
   
    
 
