
 
  
   
  View source for Library and information science - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   View source for Library and information science 
    
    
     ← Library and information science
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reasons:  
      
       
        
        
          
           
           
            
             You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia.
             
            Editing from your IP address range (185.242.5.0/24) has been blocked (disabled) on all Wikimedia wikis until 20:14, 15 August 2023 by Martin Urbanec (meta.wikimedia.org) for the following reason:  
             
            
             No open proxies: please read the FAQ should you be affected
             
            This block began on 20:14, 15 August 2020 
            Your current IP address is 185.242.5.178. Please include all above details in any queries you make. 
            If you believe you were blocked by mistake, you can find additional information and instructions in the No open proxies global policy. Otherwise, to discuss the block post a request for review on Meta-Wiki or send an email to the stewards Volunteer Response Team queue at stewards@wikimedia.org including all above details.  
            
         
        
        
       
        
        
          You are currently unable to edit Wikipedia due to a block affecting this IP address.
         This does not affect your ability to read Wikipedia pages.
        
         
        Most people who see this message have done nothing wrong. Some kinds of blocks restrict editing from specific service providers or telecom companies in response to recent abuse or vandalism, and affect other users who are unrelated to that abuse. See below if you do not believe you have done anything wrong.
         
        Editing from 185.242.4.0/22 has been blocked (disabled) by ‪ST47‬ for the following reason(s):  
         
          
          
           
          The IP address that you are currently using has been blocked because it is believed to be a web host provider or colocation provider. To prevent abuse, web hosts and colocation providers may be blocked from editing Wikipedia. 
          
           You will not be able to edit Wikipedia using a web host or colocation provider because it hides your IP address, much like a proxy or VPN. 
           We recommend that you attempt to use another connection to edit. For example, if you use a proxy or VPN to connect to the internet, turn it off when editing Wikipedia. If you edit using a mobile connection, try using a Wi-Fi connection, and vice versa. If you have a Wikipedia account, please log in. If you do not have any other way to edit Wikipedia, you will need to request an IP block exemption. 
           If you are confident that you are not using a web host, you may appeal this block by adding the following text on your talk page: }. You must fill in the blank with your IP address for this block to be investigated. Your IP address can be determined here. Alternatively, if you wish to keep your IP address private you can use the unblock ticket request system. There are several reasons you might be editing using the IP address of a web host or colocation provider (such as if you are using VPN software or a business network); please use this method of appeal only if you think your IP address is in fact not a web host or colocation provider. 
           Administrators: The IP block exemption user right should only be applied to allow users to edit using web host in exceptional circumstances, and requests should usually be directed to the functionaries team via email. If you intend to give the IPBE user right, a CheckUser needs to take a look at the account. This can be requested most easily at SPI Quick Checkuser Requests. Unblocking an IP or IP range with this template is highly discouraged without at least contacting the blocking administrator.  
          
          
         
        This block has been set to expire: 21:09, 18 June 2023.  
        
        Even when blocked, you will usually still be able to edit your user talk page, and email administrators and other editors. 
        For information on how to proceed, first see the FAQ for blocked users and the guideline on block appeals. The guide to appealing blocks may also be helpful. 
        Other useful links: Blocking policy · Help:I have been blocked  
        
     
      
     
      You can view and copy the source of this page:
     ==Difficulties defining LIS==
"The question, 'What is library and information science?' does not elicit responses of the same internal conceptual coherence as similar inquiries as to the nature of other fields, e.g., 'What is chemistry?', 'What is economics?', 'What is medicine?' Each of those fields, though broad in scope, has clear ties to basic concerns of their field.  Neither LIS theory nor practice is perceived to be monolithic nor unified by a common literature or set of professional skills. Occasionally, LIS scholars (many of whom do not self-identify as members of an interreading LIS community, or prefer names other than LIS), attempt, but are unable, to find core concepts in common. Some believe that computing and internetworking concepts and skills underlie virtually every important aspect of LIS, indeed see LIS as a sub-field of computer science!  Others claim that LIS is principally a social science accompanied by practical skills such as ethnography and interviewing. Historically, traditions of public service, bibliography, documentalism, and information science have viewed their mission, their philosophical toolsets, and their domain of research differently. Still others deny the existence of a greater metropolitan LIS, viewing LIS instead as a loosely organized collection of specialized interests often unified by nothing more than their shared (and fought-over) use of the descriptor information. Indeed, claims occasionally arise to the effect that the field even has no theory of its own." (Konrad, 2007, p.&amp;nbsp;652-653).

=== A multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary or monodisciplinary field? ===
The Swedish researcher Emin Tengström (1993)&lt;ref&gt;Tengström, E. (1993). Biblioteks- och informationsvetenskapen - ett fler- eller tvär-vetenskapligt område? Svensk Biblioteksforskning,(1), 9-20.&lt;/ref&gt; described ] research as a process, not a state or structure. He differentiates three levels of ambition regarding cross-disciplinary research:
* The "]" or "]" level
* The genuine cross-disciplinary level: "]"
* The discipline-forming level "]"

What is described here is a view of social fields as dynamic and changing. Library and information science is viewed as a field that started as a multidisciplinary field based on literature, psychology, sociology, management, computer science etc., which is developing towards an ] in its own right. However, the following quote seems to indicate that LIS is actually developing in the opposite direction:

Chua &amp; Yang (2008)&lt;ref name="amsocit"/&gt; studied papers published in ''Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology'' in the period 1988-1997 and found, among other things: "Top authors have grown in diversity from those being affiliated predominantly with library/information-related departments to include those from information systems management, information technology, business, and the humanities. Amid heterogeneous clusters of collaboration among top authors, strongly connected crossdisciplinary
coauthor pairs have become more prevalent. Correspondingly, the distribution of top keywords’ occurrences that leans heavily on core information science has shifted towards other subdisciplines such as information technology and sociobehavioral science."

A more recent study revealed that 31% of the papers published in 31 LIS journals from 2007 through 2012 were by authors in academic departments of library and information science (i.e., those offering degree programs accredited by the ] or similar professional organizations in other countries).  Faculty in departments of ] (10%), ] (10%), ] (3%), the other social sciences (9%), and the other natural sciences (7%) were also represented.  Nearly one-quarter of the papers in the 31 journals were by practicing librarians, and 6% were by others in non-academic (e.g., corporate) positions.&lt;ref name="assist"/&gt;

As a field with its own body of interrelated concepts, techniques, journals, and professional associations, LIS is clearly a discipline. But by the nature of its subject matter and methods LIS is just as clearly an ], drawing on many adjacent fields (see below).

=== A fragmented adhocracy ===
Richard Whitley (1984,&lt;ref name="fragst"/&gt; 2000)&lt;ref name="intelorg"/&gt; classified scientific fields according to their intellectual and social organization and described management studies as a ‘fragmented adhocracy’, a field with a low level of coordination around a diffuse set of goals and a non-specialized terminology; but with strong connections to the practice in the business sector. Åström (2006)&lt;ref name="Astrom"/&gt; applied this conception to the description of LIS.

=== Scattering of the literature ===
Meho &amp; Spurgin (2005)&lt;ref name="amsist"/&gt; found that in a list of 2,625 items published between 1982 and 2002 by 68 faculty members of 18 schools of library and information science, only 10 databases provided significant coverage of the LIS literature. Results also show that restricting the data sources to one, two, or even three databases leads to inaccurate rankings and erroneous conclusions. Because no database provides comprehensive coverage of the LIS literature, researchers must rely on a wide range of disciplinary and multidisciplinary databases for ranking and other research purposes. Even when the nine most comprehensive databases in LIS was searched and combined, 27.0% (or 710 of 2,635) of the publications remain not found.
}

     
     Return to Library and information science. 
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_and_information_science"
     
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Page information
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
    
 
