

 
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  Ranking the research productivity of library and information science faculty and schools: An evaluation of data sources and research methods - Meho - 2005 - Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology - Wiley Online Library 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
        
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
    Skip to Article Content 
    Skip to Article Information 
    
   
   
    
     
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
             
              
              Working off-campus? Learn about our remote access options 
              
             
            
          
         
         
        
       
        
          
           
             
            
             
            
          
           
            
            
             
             
              
               
                Search withinThis JournalAnywhere
                
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
            
            
             
              
               
               
              
            
             
              
                 Login / Register  
               
              
             
            
           
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
          
           
            
             
               
                 
              
             
            
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              
               
                 
                
                
                  
                  
                   
                    Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology
                   Volume 56, Issue 12 p. 1314-1331
                   
                   
                  
                   Research Article
                   
                  Ranking the research productivity of library and information science faculty and schools: An evaluation of data sources and research methods 
                   
                   
                    Lokman I. Meho, 
                      
                      Lokman I. Meho 
                       
                       meho@indiana.edu 
                       
                      School of Library and Information Science, Indiana University, 1320 E. 10th Street, LI 011, Bloomington, IN 47405Search for more papers by this author
                     Kristina M. Spurgin, 
                      
                      Kristina M. Spurgin 
                       
                       kristina@infomuse.net 
                       
                      School of Information and Library Science, University of North Carolina, 201 Manning Hall, CB# 3360, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3360Search for more papers by this author
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      Lokman I. Meho, 
                        
                        Lokman I. Meho 
                         
                         meho@indiana.edu 
                         
                        School of Library and Information Science, Indiana University, 1320 E. 10th Street, LI 011, Bloomington, IN 47405Search for more papers by this author
                       Kristina M. Spurgin, 
                        
                        Kristina M. Spurgin 
                         
                         kristina@infomuse.net 
                         
                        School of Information and Library Science, University of North Carolina, 201 Manning Hall, CB# 3360, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3360Search for more papers by this author
                       
                      
                     
                    
                   
                  
                   
                    First published: 04 August 2005
                    
                   
                    https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.20227
                   
                   
                    Citations: 38
                   
                  
                 
                
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     Read the full text
                    
                    
                     About
                     
                      
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     PDF
                     
                    
                     Tools
                     
                      
                       Request permission
                       Export citation
                       Add to favorites
                       Track citation
                      
                     
                     
                    
                    
                     ShareShare
                      
                      
                       Give accessShare full text access
                      
                      
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Share full-text access
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            Please review our Terms and Conditions of Use and check box below to share full-text version of article.
                            
                             I have read and accept the Wiley Online Library Terms and Conditions of Use
                            
                           
                           
                           
                            Shareable Link
                            Use the link below to share a full-text version of this article with your friends and colleagues. Learn more.
                            
                             
                              
                              
                              
                             Copy URL
                            
                            
                           
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      Share a linkShare on
                      
                       Facebook
                       Twitter
                       Linked In
                       Reddit
                       Wechat
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                
                
                
                  
                   
                   Abstract 
                    
                    This study evaluates the data sources and research methods used in earlier studies to rank the research productivity of Library and Information Science (LIS) faculty and schools. In doing so, the study identifies both tools and methods that generate more accurate publication count rankings as well as databases that should be taken into consideration when conducting comprehensive searches in the literature for research and curricular needs. With a list of 2,625 items published between 1982 and 2002 by 68 faculty members of 18 American Library Association– (ALA-) accredited LIS schools, hundreds of databases were searched. Results show that there are only 10 databases that provide significant coverage of the LIS indexed literature. Results also show that restricting the data sources to one, two, or even three databases leads to inaccurate rankings and erroneous conclusions. Because no database provides comprehensive coverage of the LIS literature, researchers must rely on a wide range of disciplinary and multidisciplinary databases for ranking and other research purposes. The study answers such questions as the following: Is the Association of Library and Information Science Education's (ALISE's) directory of members a reliable tool to identify a complete list of faculty members at LIS schools? How many and which databases are needed in a multifile search to arrive at accurate publication count rankings? What coverage will be achieved using a certain number of databases? Which research areas are well covered by which databases? What alternative methods and tools are available to supplement gaps among databases? Did coverage performance of databases change over time? What counting method should be used when determining what and how many items each LIS faculty and school has published? The authors recommend advanced analysis of research productivity to provide a more detailed assessment of research productivity of authors and programs. 
                    
                   
                 
                 
                  
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Citing Literature
                     
                    
                     
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
               
               
                 
                 
                  
                 
                 
                  Volume56, Issue12
                  October 2005
                  Pages 1314-1331 
                  
                 
                 
                  
                    
                      
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                   Related
                   Information
                  
                  
                   
                   
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                      
                        
                     
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
             
              
               
                Close Figure Viewer
               
               
                Return to Figure
               
              
              
               
                
                 
                Previous FigureNext Figure
                
               
               
                
                 Caption
                
                
               
              
              
             
            
             Download PDF
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
         
          Additional links  
         
          
            
             
             About Wiley Online Library 
              
              Privacy Policy 
              Terms of Use 
              Cookies 
              Accessibility 
              Publishing Policies 
              
             
           
            
             
             Help &amp; Support 
              
              Contact Us 
              Training and Support 
              DMCA &amp; Reporting Piracy 
              
             
           
            
             
             Opportunities 
              
              Subscription Agents 
              Advertisers &amp; Corporate Partners 
              
             
           
            
             
             Connect with Wiley 
              
              The Wiley Network 
              Wiley Press Room 
              
             
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              Copyright © 1999-2022 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. All rights reserved
              
             
              
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
      
     
     The full text of this article hosted at iucr.org is unavailable due to technical difficulties.  
     
     
         
       
        
         
        
       
       
        
        
       Log in to Wiley Online Library 
        
        
          
          
          
          
          
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
           
           
          
          
           Password 
           
            
          
           Forgot password?  
          
          
          
             
         
         
         
         
        
         NEW USER &gt;   INSTITUTIONAL LOGIN &gt;  
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
        
       Change Password 
       
       
        
        
          
          
          
           Old Password 
           
            
          
          
           New Password 
           
            
           Too Short Weak Medium Strong Very Strong Too Long 
           
          
         
          
        
        
        Password Changed Successfully 
        Your password has been changed 
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
        
       Create a new account 
       
       
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
          
        
        
         Returning user  
        
       
      
     
     
      
        
        
         
        
       Forgot your password? 
       Enter your email address below.  
       
       
        
       
         
         
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
          
         
         
         
         
          
        
        
        
        Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. 
        
       
      
     
    
     
     
      
      
      Request Username 
       
       Can't sign in? Forgot your username? 
       Enter your email address below and we will send you your username 
        
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
         
         
         Close 
        
        
       
       
       If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username 
       
      
      
     
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
