

 
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  Disciplinary, national, and departmental contributions to the literature of library and information science, 2007–2012 - Walters - 2016 - Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology - Wiley Online Library 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
        
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
    Skip to Article Content 
    Skip to Article Information 
    
   
   
    
     
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
             
              
              Working off-campus? Learn about our remote access options 
              
             
            
          
         
         
        
       
        
          
           
             
            
             
            
          
           
            
            
             
             
              
               
                Search withinThis JournalASIS&amp;T JournalsWiley Online Library
                
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                 
                  
                   
                    Search term
                    
                    
                      Advanced Search Citation Search
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
            
            
             
              
               
               
              
            
             
              
                 Login / Register  
               
              
             
             
           
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
          
           
            
            Publications 
              
               
                
                Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology  
                Proceedings of the Association for Information Science and Technology  
                Bulletin of the Association for Information Science and Technology  
                Annual Review of Information Science and Technology  
                
               
               
             THESAURUS    
            
            
             
                       
              
                       
              
             
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
            
             
               
                 
              
             
            
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              
               
                 
                
                
                  
                  
                   
                    Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology
                   Volume 67, Issue 6 p. 1487-1506
                   
                   
                  
                   RESEARCH ARTICLE
                   
                  Disciplinary, national, and departmental contributions to the literature of library and information science, 2007–2012 
                   
                   
                    William H. Walters, 
                      
                      William H. Walters 
                       
                       william.walters@manhattan.edu 
                       
                      Mary Alice &amp; Tom O'Malley Library, Manhattan College, 4513 Manhattan College Parkway, Riverdale, NY, 10471Search for more papers by this author
                     Esther Isabelle Wilder, 
                      
                      Esther Isabelle Wilder 
                       
                       ewilder@gc.cuny.edu 
                       
                      Department of Sociology, Lehman College, The City University of New York, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, Bronx, NY, 10468Search for more papers by this author
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                     
                      William H. Walters, 
                        
                        William H. Walters 
                         
                         william.walters@manhattan.edu 
                         
                        Mary Alice &amp; Tom O'Malley Library, Manhattan College, 4513 Manhattan College Parkway, Riverdale, NY, 10471Search for more papers by this author
                       Esther Isabelle Wilder, 
                        
                        Esther Isabelle Wilder 
                         
                         ewilder@gc.cuny.edu 
                         
                        Department of Sociology, Lehman College, The City University of New York, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, Bronx, NY, 10468Search for more papers by this author
                       
                      
                     
                    
                   
                  
                   
                    First published: 29 April 2015
                    
                   
                    https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.23448
                   
                   
                    Citations: 25
                   
                  
                 
                
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     Read the full text
                    
                    
                     About
                     
                      
                     
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     PDF
                     
                    
                     Tools
                     
                      
                       Request permission
                       Export citation
                       Add to favorites
                       Track citation
                      
                     
                     
                    
                    
                     ShareShare
                      
                      
                       Give accessShare full text access
                      
                      
                       
                        
                         
                          
                          Share full-text access
                         
                         
                          
                           
                            Please review our Terms and Conditions of Use and check box below to share full-text version of article.
                            
                             I have read and accept the Wiley Online Library Terms and Conditions of Use
                            
                           
                           
                           
                            Shareable Link
                            Use the link below to share a full-text version of this article with your friends and colleagues. Learn more.
                            
                             
                              
                              
                              
                             Copy URL
                            
                            
                           
                          
                         
                        
                       
                       
                      Share a linkShare on
                      
                       Facebook
                       Twitter
                       Linked In
                       Reddit
                       Wechat
                      
                     
                     
                   
                  
                 
                
                
                
                  
                  Abstract 
                   
                   We investigate the contributions of particular disciplines, countries, and academic departments to the literature of library and information science (LIS) using data for the articles published in 31 journals from 2007 to 2012. In particular, we examine the contributions of authors outside the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada; faculty in departments other than LIS; and practicing librarians. Worldwide, faculty in LIS departments account for 31% of the journal literature; librarians, 23%; computer science faculty, 10%; and management faculty, 10%. The top contributing nations are the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, China, Canada, and Taiwan. Within the United States and the United Kingdom, the current productivity of LIS departments is correlated with past productivity and with other measures of reputation and performance. More generally, the distribution of contributions is highly skewed. In the United States, five departments account for 27% of the articles contributed by LIS faculty; in the United Kingdom, four departments account for nearly two-thirds of the articles. This skewed distribution reinforces the possibility that high-status departments may gain a permanent advantage in the competition for students, faculty, journal space, and research funding. At the same time, concentrations of research-active faculty in particular departments may generate beneficial spillover effects. 
                   
                 
                 
                  
                 
                 
                  
                   
                    
                     
                      Citing Literature
                     
                    
                     
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
               
               
                 
                 
                  
                 
                 
                  Volume67, Issue6
                  June 2016
                  Pages 1487-1506 
                  
                 
                 
                  
                    
                      
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                   Related
                   Information
                  
                  
                   
                   
                    
                   
                   
                    
                     
                    
                   
                  
                 
                
                 
                  
                   
                    
                      
                        
                     
                    
                   
                  
                
               
              
             
             
             
              
               
                Close Figure Viewer
               
               
                Return to Figure
               
              
              
               
                
                 
                Previous FigureNext Figure
                
               
               
                
                 Caption
                
                
               
              
              
             
            
             Download PDF
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        
         
           
            
            
             
               
                 
                 
               
                 © 2022 Association for Information Science &amp; Technology 
                
              
               
                 
                Join ASIS&amp;T&nbsp;|&nbsp; Association News&nbsp;|&nbsp; Events Calendar&nbsp;|&nbsp; Career Center&nbsp;|&nbsp; iConnect&nbsp;|&nbsp; Webinars 
                
              
              
              
             
             
            
            
            
              © 2022 Association for Information Science &amp; Technology 
             
            
          
         
         
        
        
         
         
          Additional links  
         
          
            
             
             About Wiley Online Library 
              
              Privacy Policy 
              Terms of Use 
              Cookies 
              Accessibility 
              Publishing Policies 
              
             
           
            
             
             Help &amp; Support 
              
              Contact Us 
              Training and Support 
              DMCA &amp; Reporting Piracy 
              
             
           
            
             
             Opportunities 
              
              Subscription Agents 
              Advertisers &amp; Corporate Partners 
              
             
           
            
             
             Connect with Wiley 
              
              The Wiley Network 
              Wiley Press Room 
              
             
           
          
          
         
         
         
          
            
             
             
              Copyright © 1999-2022 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. All rights reserved
              
             
              
             
           
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
         
       
        
         
        
       
       
        
        
       Log in to Wiley Online Library 
        
        
          
          
          
          
          
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
           
           
          
          
           Password 
           
            
          
           Forgot password?  
          
          
          
             
         
         
         
          
           
           
          Log in with your ASIS&amp;T membership  Go to Asist.org  
          
         
        
         NEW USER &gt;   INSTITUTIONAL LOGIN &gt;  
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
         
        
       Change Password 
       
       
        
        
          
          
          
           Old Password 
           
            
          
          
           New Password 
           
            
           Too Short Weak Medium Strong Very Strong Too Long 
           
          
         
          
        
        
        Password Changed Successfully 
        Your password has been changed 
        
       
      
     
     
       
       
        
        
       Create a new account 
       
       
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
          
        
        
         Returning user  
        
       
      
     
     
      
        
        
         
        
       Forgot your password? 
       Enter your email address below.  
       
       
        
       
         
         
          
           Email or Customer ID 
           
           
          
         
         
         
         
          
        
        
        
        Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password. If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered, and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account. 
        
       
      
     
      
      
      Request Username 
       
       Can't sign in? Forgot your username? 
       Enter your email address below and we will send you your username 
        
       
         
         
          Email or Customer ID 
          
          
         
         
         
         
         Close 
        
        
       
       
       If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username 
       
      
      
     
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
