
 
  
  Unpaywall finds free versions of paywalled papers | Nature 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   Skip to main content 
    
     
     Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript. 
     
    
    
     
     
      
      Advertisement 
       
          
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
       
         
          
           
           
           
        
        
          View all journals   
          Search
          
           
             
          My Account
          
           
             Login
          
           
             
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
           Explore content
           
            
              
           About the journal
           
            
              
           Publish with us
           
            
              
         
        
        
          Sign up for alerts
          
           
             
          RSS feed   
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
      nature
        
         
        
      toolbox
        
         
        
       article
        
      
     
    
   
   
    
     
      
      
        Unpaywall finds free versions of paywalled papers 
       
        Download PDF 
        
         
          
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        Published: 04 April 2017 
        
       Unpaywall finds free versions of paywalled papers 
       
        Dalmeet Singh Chawla&nbsp;
        
        Nature (2017)Cite this article  
        
         
          2124 Accesses  
          4 Citations  
          712 Altmetric  
          Metrics details  
         
        
       
       
       Subjects 
        
        Communication
        Publishing 
        
       
      
      
      
       New tool joins a growing collection of software for accessing fee-for-view scientific literature.
       
       
       
       
         Download PDF 
         
          
           
        
       
      
       An online widget that trawls the Internet searching for free-to-read versions of paywalled papers has been installed more than 10,000 times since its prerelease debut on 10 March, its inventors say.&nbsp;
      
      
       Officially launched on 4 April, Unpaywall is a free web-browser extension that hunts for papers in more than 5,300 repositories worldwide, including preprint servers and institutional databases.Once installed in Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox, Unpaywall brings up a green or grey tab on the side of the screen when a user hits a paywalled paper. A green ‘unlock’ sign means that a free version of the paper is available elsewhere, whereas a grey ‘lock’ icon means that the tool could not locate a free version.For researchers and librarians, Unpaywall and a growing collection of similar tools promise to simplify the process of finding freely accessible (and legal) copies of research articles.Holly Bik, a marine biologist at the University of California, Riverside, says Unpaywall is especially useful when she is off campus. “I can quickly access and download PDFs of journal articles without having deal with the hassle  logging into a VPN connection to access my university journal subscriptions,” she told Nature. And author Nicola Twilley, a contributing writer to The New Yorker who is based in Brooklyn, New York, took to Twitter on 23 March to point out that Unpaywall found her a free version of a study half an hour after she installed it. “I am constantly looking for ways to get hold of academic papers as source material,” she wrote in an e-mail.Rick Anderson, associate dean for collections and scholarly communication at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, says that Unpaywall could alter the calculus that librarians use when choosing subscriptions.“For years, libraries have had little expectation that the  deposit of subscription articles would displace subscription access, mainly because locating those articles and providing access to them would be labor-intensive,” Anderson says. “By making that process so much easier, Unpaywall could really change the game for us.”
      
      
        Bots galore 
      
      
       Of course, readers have had the ability to find article PDFs online for years, thanks to Google and Google Scholar. But these tools do not always retrieve free articles, says Jason Priem, Unpaywall's co-inventor. That's where Unpaywall and other services come in.
      
      
       At its heart, Unpaywall provides a simple interface into a database of digital object identifiers (DOIs) — some 86 million in all. In October 2016, Priem and co-inventor Heather Piwowar, who together founded the not-for-profit company Impactstory in Vancouver, Canada, launched oaDOI, an 'application programming interface' (API), or set of programmatic instructions, that allows researchers to search that database for papers on the basis of their DOI. oaDOI is used more than a million times per week, according to Priem; it successfully finds an open-access version of a paper around 30% of the time. Unpaywall basically queries that same database automatically, flagging articles for which a free version is available. oaDOI, in turn, draws inspiration from DOAI (Digital Open Access Identifier), says Priem. DOAI is described on its homepage as an “alternate DOI resolver” that redirects requests to the free version of an article, if available, and otherwise to the paywalled paper itself.According to Piwowar, both oaDOI and Unpaywall include a nimble title-matching feature, which uses an algorithm to compare titles, forgiving spacing and punctuation differences. The idea is to overcome the fact that titles change in different versions of manuscripts, she explains.More than 600 libraries worldwide are using oaDOI, Priem says. The National Library of Sweden, for instance, uses oaDOI in their SwePub analysis system, which integrates the metadata of research published at all of Sweden’s research institutions.“By using oaDOI we have been able to increase our statistics on green open access by 38% and gold open access by 27%,” says Jürgen Kerstna, formerly a system developer at the National Library of Sweden. (Green open-access, also called self-archiving, refers to authors depositing their papers in online repositories; gold open-access is when journal articles are made available by the publisher.)Other tools for mining the open-source literature have been or are being developed. These include the bibliographic databases oaFindr and oaFindr+; the Open Access Button, a web-browser extension that searches for open-access papers and allows users to e-mail authors when it cannot find one; and 'pirate' services such as Sci-Hub.
      
      
       
        
         
          
          
         
        
       
       Joseph McArthur, who is assistant director of the Right to Research Coalition policy advocacy group in London, says Open Access Button, which he co-founded, has adopted oaDOI’s freely available API as well as additional aggregators to expand its reach. “We're hoping our projects can work in tandem to provide the community with the best tools possible for legally getting around paywalls,” he says.Another in-development tool, OAbot (Open Access Bot), will search the web for free-to-read versions of papers mentioned in references on Wikipedia pages, says Jake Orlowitz, head of the Wikipedia Library at the Wikimedia Foundation in the San Francisco Bay Area. Once fully launched, references on English Wikipedia pages will be marked with a green unlock icon when a free version of the paper is available. In time, Orlowitz notes, the team aims to use multiple icons to better reflect a paper’s availability — namely, whether it is paywalled, not paywalled but requires registration, free to read but not free to reuse, or free to read as well as reuse.If publishers move toward an open-access model, Unpaywall and its ilk would no longer be needed. Priem, for one, would welcome that change, he says: “I’ll be pulling the plug with a great big smile on my face.”
       
      
      
       
        
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authors
          
           Dalmeet Singh Chawla
            
             
              View author publications
             
             
              You can also search for this author in PubMed&nbsp;Google Scholar
             
            
          
         
        
       
      
      
       
        Related links
        
         Related links
         Related links in Nature Research
         Related external links
        
       
      
      
       
        Rights and permissions
        
         Reprints and Permissions
        
       
      
      
       
        About this article
        
         
          
           
          
          
           Cite this article
           Chawla, D. Unpaywall finds free versions of paywalled papers. Nature (2017). https://doi.org/10.1038/nature.2017.21765
           Download citation
             
              
             
           
            Published: 04 April 2017
            DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/nature.2017.21765
           
           
            
             Share this article
             Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:Get shareable link
             
              Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
             
             
              Copy to clipboard
             
              Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative 
            
           
           
          
         
        
       
        
      
     
    
    
      Download PDF 
      
       
        
     
     
      
      Associated Content 
       
        
        Collection 
         NatureTech  
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
          
          Advertisement 
           
              
            
           
          
         
        
       
       
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
    Explore content 
     
       Research articles   
       News   
       Opinion   
       Research Analysis   
       Careers   
       Books &amp; Culture   
       Podcasts   
       Videos   
       Current issue   
       Browse issues   
       Collections   
       Subjects   
      Follow us on Facebook   
      Follow us on Twitter   
      Sign up for alerts
       
        
          
       RSS feed   
     
    
   
   
    
    About the journal 
     
       Journal Staff   
       About the Editors   
       Journal Information   
       Our publishing models   
       Editorial Values Statement   
       Journal Impact   
       Awards   
       Contact   
       Editorial policies   
       History of Nature   
       Send a news tip   
     
    
   
   
    
    Publish with us 
     
       For Authors   
       For Referees   
      Submit manuscript
       
        
          
     
    
   
   
    
    Search 
     
      
       Search articles by subject, keyword or author 
        
         
          
         
         Show results from  All journals This journal  
         
         Search 
         
        
       
      
     
     
       Advanced search   
     
    Quick links 
     
     Explore articles by subject 
     Find a job 
     Guide to authors 
     Editorial policies 
     
    
   
   
    
    
     
      
        Nature (Nature)   ISSN 1476-4687 (online)   ISSN 0028-0836 (print)   
      
     
    
    
     
      
       
       nature.com sitemap 
        
         
          
         
         
         About us 
         Press releases 
         Press office 
         Contact us 
         
         
           
           
            
              
           
           
            
              
           
           
            
              
         
        
        
         
         Discover content 
          
          Journals A-Z 
          Articles by subject 
          Nano 
          Protocol Exchange 
          Nature Index 
          
         
         
         Publishing policies 
          
          Nature portfolio policies 
          Open access 
          
         
         
         Author &amp; Researcher services 
          
          Reprints &amp; permissions 
          Research data 
          Language editing 
          Scientific editing 
          Nature Masterclasses 
          Nature Research Academies 
          
         
         
         Libraries &amp; institutions 
          
          Librarian service &amp; tools 
          Librarian portal 
          Open research 
          Recommend to library 
          
         
         
         Advertising &amp; partnerships 
          
          Advertising 
          Partnerships &amp; Services 
          Media kits 
          Branded content 
          
         
         
         Career development 
          
          Nature Careers 
          Nature  Conferences 
          Nature  events 
          
         
         
         Regional websites 
          
          Nature Africa 
          Nature China 
          Nature India 
          Nature Italy 
          Nature Japan 
          Nature Korea 
          Nature Middle East 
          
         
         
         Legal &amp; Privacy 
          
          Privacy Policy 
          Use of cookies 
          Manage cookies/Do not sell my data 
          Legal notice 
          Accessibility statement 
          Terms &amp; Conditions 
          California Privacy Statement 
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
     © 2022 Springer Nature Limited 
     
    
     
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
     
    
   
   
    
      
       
       Close banner   
         
         
        
       Close  
     
     
      
       
        
       Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily. 
       
       
        
         
         Email address 
         
          Sign up 
         
         
          I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy. 
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
       
       Close banner   
         
         
        
       Close  
     
     Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox. Sign up for Nature Briefing  
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
    
 
