
 
  
   
  Academic library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Academic library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Library attached to a higher education institution
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Library of Trinity College Dublin, established in 1592
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Round Reading Room of the Maughan Library, the main academic library of King's College London
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         University Library Leiden, the Netherlands, in 1694. La nouvelle bibliothèque, from Les delices de Leide, une des célèbres villes de l'Europe, Leiden: P. van der Aa, 1712
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Old Library of Keio University in Tokyo, Japan
        
       
       
      An academic library is a library that is attached to a higher education institution and serves two complementary purposes: to support the curriculum, and to support the research of the university faculty and students. It is unknown how many academic libraries there are worldwide. An academic and research portal maintained by UNESCO links to 3,785 libraries. According to the National Center for Education Statistics, there are an estimated 3,700 academic libraries in the United States. In the past, the material for class readings, intended to supplement lectures as prescribed by the instructor, has been called reserves. In the period before electronic resources became available, the reserves were supplied as actual books or as photocopies of appropriate journal articles. Modern academic libraries generally also provide access to electronic resources. 
      Academic libraries must determine a focus for collection development since comprehensive collections are not feasible. Librarians do this by identifying the needs of the faculty and student body, as well as the mission and academic programs of the college or university. When there are particular areas of specialization in academic libraries, these are often referred to as niche collections. These collections are often the basis of a special collection department and may include original papers, artwork, and artifacts written or created by a single author or about a specific subject. 
      There is a great deal of variation among academic libraries based on their size, resources, collections, and services. The Harvard University Library is considered to be the largest strict academic library in the world, although the Danish Royal Library—a combined national and academic library—has a larger collection. Another notable example is the University of the South Pacific which has academic libraries distributed throughout its twelve member countries. The University of California operates the largest academic library system in the world, managing more than 34 million items in 100 libraries on ten campuses.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
          
          1.1 United States 
          1.2 Canada 
          1.3 India 
           
        2 Modern academic libraries 
        3 See also 
        4 Notes and references 
        5 Further reading 
        
       
      History 
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (August 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      United States 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Law Library at the University of Michigan Law School
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The George Peabody Library at Johns Hopkins University
        
       
       
      
      
       See also: University libraries in the United States
       
      The first colleges in the United States were intended to train members of the clergy. The libraries associated with these institutions largely consisted of donated books on the subjects of theology and the classics. In 1766, Yale had approximately 4,000 volumes, second only to Harvard. Access to these libraries was restricted to faculty members and a few students: the only staff was a part-time faculty member or the president of the college. The priority of the library was to protect the books, not to allow patrons to use them. In 1849, Yale was open 30 hours a week, the University of Virginia was open nine hours a week, Columbia University four, and Bowdoin College only three. Students instead created literary societies and assessed entrance fees in order to build a small collection of usable volumes often in excess of what the university library held. 
      Around the turn of the century, this approach began to change. The American Library Association (ALA) was formed in 1876, with members including Melvil Dewey and Charles Ammi Cutter. Libraries re-prioritized in favor of improving access to materials, and found funding increasing as a result of increased demand for said materials. 
      Academic libraries today vary in regard to the extent to which they accommodate those who are not affiliated with their parent universities. Some offer reading and borrowing privileges to members of the public on payment of an annual fee; such fees can vary greatly. The privileges so obtained usually do not extend to such services as computer usage, other than to search the catalog, or Internet access. Alumni and students of cooperating local universities may be given discounts or other consideration when arranging for borrowing privileges. On the other hand, access to the libraries of some universities is absolutely restricted to students, faculty, and staff. Even in this case, they may make it possible for others to borrow materials through inter-library loan programs. 
      Libraries of land-grant universities generally are more accessible to the public. In some cases, they are official government document repositories and so are required to be open to the public. Still, members of the public are generally charged fees for borrowing privileges, and usually are not allowed to access everything they would be able to as students.  
      Canada 
      Academic libraries in Canada are a relatively recent development in relation to other countries. The very first academic library in Canada was opened in 1789 in Windsor, Nova Scotia. Academic libraries were significantly small during the 19th century and up until the 1950s, when Canadian academic libraries began to grow steadily as a result of greater importance being placed on education and research. The growth of libraries throughout the 1960s was a direct result of many overwhelming factors including inflated student enrollments, increased graduate programs, higher budget allowance, and general advocacy of the importance of these libraries. As a result of this growth and the Ontario New Universities Library Project that occurred during the early 1960s, five new universities were established in Ontario that all included fully catalogued collections. The establishment of libraries was widespread throughout Canada and was furthered by grants provided by the Canada Council and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, which sought to enhance library collections. Since many academic libraries were constructed after World War Two, a majority of the Canadian academic libraries that were built before 1940 that have not been updated to modern lighting, air conditioning, etc., are either no longer in use or are on the verge of decline. The total number of college and university libraries increased from 31 in 1959–1960 to 105 in 1969–1970. 
      Following the growth of academic libraries in Canada during the 1960s, there was a brief period of sedation, which was a primary result of some major budgetary issues. These academic libraries were faced with cost issues relating to the recently developed service of interlibrary lending and the high costs of periodicals on acquisition budgets, which affected overall acquisition budgeting and ultimately general collections. Canadian academic libraries faced consistent problems relating to insufficient collections and overall lack of coordination among collections. 
      Academic libraries within Canada might not have flourished or continued to be strengthened without the help of outside organizations. The Ontario Council of University Libraries (OCUL) was established in 1967 to promote unity among Canadian academic libraries. The Ontario College and University Library Association (OCULA) is attached to the Ontario Library Association (OLA) and is concerned with representing academic librarians in regards to issues that are shared in the academic library setting.  
      India 
      Modern academic libraries 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Bolus Herbarium Library at the University of Cape Town in South Africa
        
       
       
      Academic libraries have transformed in the 21st century to focus less on physical collection development and more on information access and digital resources. Today's academic libraries typically provide access to subscription-based online resources, including research databases and ebook collections, in addition to physical books and journals. Academic libraries also offer space for students to work and study, in groups or individually on "silent floors", and reference and research help services, sometimes including virtual reference services.  Some academic libraries lend out technology such as video cameras, iPads, and calculators. To reflect this changing focus, many academic libraries have remodeled as Learning Commons. Academic libraries and learning commons often house tutoring and writing centers and other academic services. 
      A major focus of modern academic libraries is information literacy instruction, with most American academic libraries employing a person or department of people dedicated primarily to instruction. Many academic institutions offer faculty status to librarians, and librarians are often expected to publish research in their field. Academic librarian positions in the United States usually require an MLIS degree from an ALA-accredited institution. The Association of College and Research Libraries is the largest academic library organization in the United States.  
      See also 
      
       Academic journal 
       Google Scholar and academic libraries 
       Internet search engines and libraries 
       Shadow library 
       Research library 
       Research Libraries Group 
       Research Libraries UK 
       Library assessment 
       Trends in library usage
       
      Notes and references 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b c Curzon, Susan; Jennie Quinonez-Skinner (9 September 2009). Academic Libraries. Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences. pp.&nbsp;11–22. doi:10.1081/E-ELIS3-120044525. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-8493-9712-7. Retrieved 10 September 2013.  
         ^ 
           Pezzi, Bryan (2000). Massachusetts. Weigl Publishers. p.&nbsp;15. ISBN&nbsp;978-1-930954-35-9.  
         ^ 
           "Årsberetning 2015" (PDF) (in Danish). 2015. Retrieved 28 August 2017.  
         ^  
           Budd, John M. (1998). The Academic Library: Its Context, Its Purpose, and Its Operation. Englewood, Colorado: Libraries Unlimited. pp.&nbsp;30–31.  
         ^  
           McCabe, Gerard; Ruth J. Person (1995). Academic Libraries: Their Rationale and Role in American Higher Education. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press. pp.&nbsp;1–3.  
         ^ a b Budd (1998), p. 34  
         ^ McCabe (1995), pp. 1-3.  
         ^ a b c d 
           Beckman, M.; Dahms, M.; Lorne, B. (2010). "Libraries".  
         ^ 
           Downs, R. B. (1967). Resources of canadian academic and research libraries. Ottawa, ON.: Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada. pp.&nbsp;9.  
         ^ 
           Downs, R. B. (1967). Resources of canadian academic and research libraries. Ottawa, ON.: Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada. pp.&nbsp;93.  
         ^ 
           Downs, R. B. (1967). Resources of canadian academic and research libraries. Ottawa, ON.: Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada. pp.&nbsp;4.  
         ^ a b 
           University research libraries: Report of the consultative group on university research libraries. Ottawa, ON: The Canada Council. 1978. p.&nbsp;4.  
         ^ 
           University research libraries: Report of the consultative group on university research libraries. Ottawa, ON: The Canada Council. 1978. p.&nbsp;2.  
         ^ 
           "A History of Collaboration". Ontario Council of University Libraries. 2011. Archived from the original on 26 August 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2017.  
         ^ 
           Ontario Library Association (n.d.). "About OCULA". Archived from the original on 6 December 2011.  
         ^ 
           "Changing Roles of Academic and Research Libraries". Association of College &amp; Research Libraries (ACRL). 30 May 2018. Retrieved 12 July 2019.  
         ^ "3D Tour of 5th Floor (silent floor) of USF Libraries Tampa," University of South Florida Libraries Digital Heritage and Humanities Collection (accessed 22 August 2021).  
         ^ 
           Research Planning and Review Committee, ACRL (5 June 2018). "2018 top trends in academic libraries: A review of the trends and issues affecting academic libraries in higher education" (PDF). College &amp; Research Libraries News. 79 (6): 286. doi:10.5860/crln.79.6.286.  
         ^ 
           "Academic Libraries". Education &amp; Careers. American Library Association. 21 July 2016. Retrieved 12 July 2019.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Bazillion, Richard J. &amp; Braun, Connie (1995) Academic Libraries as High-tech Gateways: a guide to design and space decisions. Chicago: American Library Association 
        ISBN&nbsp;0838906567 
       --do.-- --do.-- 2nd ed. --do.-- 2001 
        ISBN&nbsp;083890792X 
       Jürgen Beyer, «&nbsp;Comparer les bibliothèques universitaires&nbsp;», Arbido newsletter 2012:8 
       Ellsworth, Ralph E. (1973) Academic library buildings: a guide to architectural issues and solutions 530 pp. Boulder: Associated University Press 
       Giustini, Dean (2011, 3 May) Canadian academic libraries' use of social media, 2011 update . Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20110512080605/http://blogs.ubc.ca/dean/2011/05/canadian-academic-libraries-use-of-social-media-2011-update/ 
       Hamlin, Arthur T. (1981). The University Library in the United States: Its Origins and Development. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780812277951 
       Hunt, C. J. (1993) "Academic library planning in the United Kingdom", in: British Journal of Academic Librarianship; vol. 8 (1993), pp.&nbsp;3–16 
       Shiflett, Orvin Lee (1981). Origins of American Academic Librarianship. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex Pub. Corp. 
        ISBN&nbsp;9780893910822 
       Taylor, Sue, ed. (1995) Building libraries for the information age: based on the proceedings of a symposium on The Future of Higher Educational Libraries at the King's Manor, York 11–12 April 1994. York: Institute of Advanced Architectural Studies, University of York 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-904761-49-5
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Faceted Application of Subject Terminology
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Academic_library&amp;oldid=1065189614"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Academic libraries
       Types of library
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 Danish-language sources (da)
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use dmy dates from July 2013
       Articles with limited geographic scope from August 2017
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
       Articles with FAST identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       עברית
       Magyar
       Монгол
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Polski
       Português
       Română
       Русский
       Shqip
       සිංහල
       Slovenčina
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Türkçe
       اردو
       Zazaki
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 12 January 2022, at 07:54&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
