
 
  
   
  Lending library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Lending library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         A public library building in Altona, Illinois, a small village in the Midwestern United States
        
       
       
      A lending library is a library from which books and other media are lent out. The major classifications are endowed libraries, institutional libraries (the most diverse), public libraries, and subscription libraries. It may also refer to a library or other institution that sends materials on request to another library, usually via interlibrary loan.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Types of lending libraries 
        3 Endowment libraries 
        4 Parish church libraries 
          
          4.1 Parochial libraries 
           
        5 Municipal corporation libraries 
          
          5.1 Institutional libraries 
           
        6 Social libraries 
        7 Hidden libraries 
        8 See also 
        9 References 
        10 Further reading 
        11 External links 
        
       
      History 
      The earliest reference to or use of the term "lending library" yet located in English correspondence dates from ca. 1586; C'Tess Pembroke Ps. CXII. v, "He is ... Most liberall and lending," referring to the books of an unknown type of library, and later in a context familiar to users of contemporary English, in 1708, by J. Chamberlayne; St. Gt. Brit.; III. xii. 475 " of Cambridge are Lending-libraries; that is, he that is qualified may borrow out of it any book he wants". This definition is closely associated with libraries in England before the Public Libraries Act 1850 was passed which allowed cities to use taxes to create and maintain libraries but did not require cities build them. This definition is also applicable in the United States before 1850 and widespread School District Library Acts which were passed in many states at the same time.  
      Types of lending libraries 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Wolfsburg Municipal Library by Alvar Aalto
        
       
      
       Professor Thomas Gram Bell Kelly was the first library historian to address the problem of classification and nomenclature of libraries in his book Early public libraries: a history of public libraries in Great Britain before 1850. Leeds Library (founded 1768) a private subscription or proprietary library, is also referred to as a public library and a circulating library, illustrating the need for a taxonomy that is not confusing. The major classifications, based on ownership are endowed libraries, institutional libraries (the most diverse), public libraries, and subscription libraries. 
      Without tax from the community a library may be created with a gift or endowment, by subscription, or by adding it on to an existing structure or institution which also serves other purposes. Cost is assumed by the donor or donors in an endowed library; it is assumed by the users in a subscription library, and could or could not be assumed by the users depending on the function of the institution, these variations could be combined in some cases. Private libraries are not covered by Kelly due to individual or small group ownership and his focus on the 'public' aspect of these institutions. The University of Zambia Library is an academic Library, which was founded in 1966 and officially opened in August 1969 by the first Republican President, Dr Kenneth D. Kaunda.  
      Endowment libraries 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The Christ Church Library
        
       
       
      Between the Reformation and the end of the eighteenth century, over two hundred endowed libraries are known to have been established in England alone, and existed due to the private library collections of individual benefactors or occasionally to multiple benefactors. Controlled by the local clergy, almost all endowed libraries were attached to parish churches in towns and cities, and were kept in the vestry, in the parvis over the south porch, in the parsonage, or in some nearby adjoining building. Frequently the books were chained, similar to those in the Francis Trigge Chained Library and at Christ Church Library. The two dozen or so libraries that did not match this template in England include a small but important group which were controlled from early on or the start by municipal corporations, founded in market towns before 1680.  
      Parish church libraries 
      Early parish church libraries were stated to be for the use of local layman and clergy, but the books were not in English, were largely in Latin, and exclusively theological in character. Thomas Bray an Anglican cleric who originally had the idea of the parish library, who wrote in 1697, "An Essay Towards Promoting all Necessary and Useful Knowledge, Both Divine and human, In all the Parts of His Majesty's Dominions, Both at Home and Abroad", wanted the church to acquire books and lend them to the general public as well as the parishioners and clergy. Though the collections were mainly religious, the collection extended to literature and the classics, due to an underlying desire of Bray to guide education in a proper fashion. He also lobbied for public financing, and promoted the circulation of books so that the inhabitants of the parish could take them home. 
      Some contemporary churches such as St James' Church, Sydney maintain lending libraries on theological and religious subjects for the use of their parishioners.  
      Parochial libraries 
      Parochial libraries were defined by Kelly to distinguish them from parish church libraries, whose books could be used by the locals and were often chained to desks. Parochial libraries instead were restricted to the use of parochial authorities, and often meant only for reference. The Church of England after the Restoration wished to reform the ministry of the church by investing in the learning and development of their pastoral care and teaching. Building libraries in poor benefices and isolated ones was part of that initiative, and an extension of a major philanthropic movement during that time. The movement included charity schools which would teach the children of the poor the Catechism and to read, establishing trust funds for the poor, and develop programs to repair existing parish churches and build new churches.  
      Municipal corporation libraries 
      Municipal corporation libraries were to be for the use of shopkeepers and aldermen, and to disseminate knowledge, but the one in Bristol, according to its catalog, revealed that all the early books were not in English but were in Greek or Latin, limiting their usefulness. Other libraries that were bequeathed or endowed by individual citizens to towns and cities, were managed by a non-religious group of trustees, such as in Manchester, where the library was managed by a self elected body of up to twenty-four members, who also had the duty to purchase new books, even though they employed a full-time librarian. In Leicester, the library was looked upon by townsfolk with civic pride, proclaiming that the library would bring fame, honor, and renown to the Corporation and place it was located. Bristol, Leicester and Manchester libraries all chained their books to the book press or desk for security purposes, at Leicester this was done right to the 1820s.  
      Institutional libraries 
      Institutional libraries in England were originally almost non-existent in 1750; however, by 1850 there was an established network of these specialized libraries, which had been developed mostly through private enterprise, though some government involvement had started. The specialized libraries were mainly medical libraries which early on included chemistry and botany, and later developed to serve medical professionals. Since there were few professional scientists before 1850, people interested in science relied mainly on general circulating libraries, rather than institutional libraries to meet their needs.  
      Social libraries 
      
      
       See also: Subscription library
       
      Social libraries peaked in significance by the mid-nineteenth century, and all their many forms have been the object of intense research in North America and Europe. Davis and Tucker explain that:  
      
       "The term social library has come to signify the kind of library that generally provided a circulating collection of materials and frequently a reading room for the use of any persons meeting the established criteria, which usually involved a fee or subscription, or a payment to become a joint owner or stockholder, of the library".
       
      These libraries were often referred to as "public libraries" during the nineteenth century. This appellation over time came to describe tax-supported, publicly administered libraries open to all regardless of class, race or age for free on an equal basis, at least in theory. It is understandable that the nomenclature of libraries is varied among patrons, employees and historians, who have had the difficult task of defining and separating the various types of libraries into manageable classifications.  
      Hidden libraries 
      It is impossible to cover all types of libraries throughout all stages of history and classify or define them to the satisfaction of all, but the variety and evolution of libraries needs to be explored further. Hidden libraries is a widespread description of libraries in any place from prisoner-of-war camps, military installations, motels, hotels, inns, the home, alternative communities, pubs, restaurants, laundrettes, holiday camps, coffee houses, community centres, in accommodations and facilities for workers and servants, lighthouse and seamen's establishments, prisons and asylums and is not complete. Libraries connected to transportation also abound from airliners, railways, tramcars, buses, various ships, and way stations.  
      See also 
      
       Library science 
       Librarian 
       List of libraries 
       Mechanics' Institutes 
       Public library 
       Subscription library 
       Browne Issue System
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd ed. (1989)". Dictionary.oed.com. Retrieved 2012-05-20.  
         ^ 
           "Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science". Lu.com. Retrieved 2012-05-20.  
         ^ Chamberlayne, John Magnae Britanniae notitia&nbsp;: or, the present state of Great Britain, with divers remarks upon the antient state thereof ..., Two and twentieth edition ... In two parts .... London, 1708  
         ^ 
           "Concordia - University College of Alberta". Oxford English Dictionary Online. 2008.  
         ^ Lerner, Fred (1998) The Story of Libraries. New York: Continuum, p. 143.  
         ^ Das Alvar-Aalto-Kulturhaus auf der Website des Alvar Aalto Zentrums Deutschland e.V. Wolfsburg, retrieved Jan. 25, 2015  
         ^ Ollé, James. Library History. London: Clive Bingley, 1979, p. 36.  
         ^ a b Kelly, Thomas. Early Public Libraries: a history of public libraries in Great Britain before 1850. London: Library Association, 1966, p. 68.  
         ^ 
           "History of the University of Zambia". History University of Zambia. Retrieved 5 February 2021.  
         ^ Lowell, Martin. Enrichment: A History of the Public Library in the United States in the Twentieth Century. Lanham, M.D.: Scarecrow Press, 1998, p. 1-2.  
         ^ Jacob, W. M.. "Libraries for the parish: individual donors and charitable societies." The Cambridge History Of Libraries In Britain And Ireland. 3 vols. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006, p. 65-66  
         ^ Powell, Michael. "Endowed libraries for towns." The Cambridge History Of Libraries In Britain And Ireland. 3 vols. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006, 88-99  
         ^ Symons, John. "Scientific and medical libraries: the rise of the institution." The Cambridge History of Libraries in Britain and Ireland. 3 vols. Cambridge University Press, 2006, p. 388-389  
         ^ Davis, Donald G., Jr., Tucker, John Mark. American Library History: a comprehensive guide to the literature. Santa Barbara, California: Clio Press Ltd., 1989, p. 56.  
         ^ Black, Alistair, &amp; Hoare, Peter. "Libraries and the modern world." The Cambridge History of Libraries in Britain and Ireland. 3 vols. Cambridge University Press, 2006, p. 10-12.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
        "Circulating Libraries", Chambers's Encyclopaedia, 1860 
       
        Tedder, Henry Richard; Brown, James Duff (1911). "Libraries"&nbsp;. In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol.&nbsp;16 (11th&nbsp;ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.&nbsp;545–577, see page 558. Club libraries &amp; Municipal libraries
       
      External links 
      
       Aristotle's Library 
       Birmingham History &amp; origins of the University 
       Cambridge libraries &amp; galleries 
       Description of a chained library at Christ Church Library, Oxford, UK 
       Leeds About the University 
       Lutterworth, UK 
       Manchester History and origins 
       Picture of a chained book
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Books
           
         
         
          Production
          
            
            
             Binding 
             Covers 
              
               dust jackets
               
             Design 
             Editing 
             Illustration 
              
               Illuminated manuscripts
               
             Printing 
              
               edition 
               history 
               incunabula 
               instant book 
               limited edition
               
             Publishing 
              
               advance copy 
               hardcover 
               paperback
               
             Size 
             Typesetting 
             Volume (bibliography) 
             Collection (publishing) 
             Book series
             
           
         
         
          Consumption
          
            
            
             Awards 
             Bestsellers 
             Bibliography 
             Bibliomania (tsundoku) 
             Bibliophilia 
             Bibliotherapy 
             Bookmarks 
             Bookselling 
              
               blurbs 
               book towns 
               used
               
             Censorship 
             Clubs 
             Collecting 
             Digitizing 
             Bookworm (insect) 
             Furniture 
              
               bookcases 
               bookends
               
             Library 
             Print culture 
             Reading 
              
               literacy
               
             Reviews
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             Brazil 
             France 
             Germany 
             Italy 
             Japan 
             Netherlands 
             Pakistan 
             Spain 
             United Kingdom 
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             Genres 
              
               fictional 
               miniature 
               pop-up 
               textbook
               
             Grimoire 
             Formats 
              
               audiobooks 
               Ebooks
               
             Coffee table book
             
           
         
         
          Related
          
            
            
             Book packaging 
             Book swapping 
             History of books 
             Outline 
             Intellectual property 
             ISBN 
             List of best-selling books 
             Conservation and restoration 
             Preservation 
             Dog ears 
             World Book Day 
             World Book Capital
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Outline 
              Category 
              Portal
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lending_library&amp;oldid=1052904915"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Commercial circulating libraries
       Public libraries
       Subscription libraries
       Types of library
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2010
       Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 31 October 2021, at 19:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
