
 
  
   
  Library consortium - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Library consortium 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      A library consortium is any cooperative association of libraries that coordinates resources and/or activities on behalf of its members, whether they are school, public, academic, special libraries and/or information centers. Consortia exist on a variety of levels, e.g., local, state, regional, national or international. Libraries commonly belong to multiple consortia. The goal of a library consortium is to amplify the capabilities and effectiveness of its member libraries through collective action, including, but not limited to, print or electronic resource sharing, reductions in costs through group purchases of resources, and professional development opportunities. The “bedrock principle upon which consortia operate is that libraries can accomplish more together than alone.”  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Types of library consortia 
          
          1.1 Geographic regions 
          1.2 Membership participation 
          1.3 Governance frameworks 
           
        2 Types of consortial work 
          
          2.1 Licensing and content negotiation 
          2.2 Shared technology infrastructure 
          2.3 Professional development 
          2.4 Shared print programs 
           
        3 History in the United States 
        4 Further reading 
        5 See also 
        6 References 
        
       
      Types of library consortia 
      “Library consortia are as varied as the libraries they serve” and can vary in almost all aspects, including scope, organizational structure, membership size, and mission. Broadly, library consortia can be classified using three categories: geographic region, membership participation, and governance framework.  
      Geographic regions 
      Library consortia exist globally, with a majority of consortia located in the United States and Europe. Library consortia are also established in Canada, Asia, United Kingdom, South America, Middle East, Australia, Africa, and New Zealand. Geographically, consortia can represent state, regional, national, or international interests. 
      North America, including the United States and Canada, accounts for nearly 60% of consortia registered with the International Coalition of Library Consortia (ICOLC). North American consortia typically exist at the local, state/province, and regional level. While a few consortia exist at the national level, groups are often initially formed to address concerns within a network of geographically-associated libraries. 
      In Europe and other regions of the world, consortia usually represent libraries at the national level. For example, Couperin negotiates for electronic resources on behalf of academic library organizations in France. Japan’s Alliance of University Library Consortia for E-Resources (JUSTICE) provides similar services for libraries in Japan. 
      Internationally, multi-country consortia represent libraries cooperating across the globe to develop specific services, such as technology-driven AMICAL, or to pool resources for specialized organization types, such as international law library consortium NELLCO.  
      Membership participation 
      Participation in a library consortium can differ by library type and library activity, and, in some instances, level of membership. Membership is not always restricted, and libraries can belong to one or more consortia. 
      A consortium can represent the interests of a single type of library, which include academic libraries, special libraries, and public libraries, while a multi-type consortium represents multiple library types and often serves all libraries in a central region. 
      A consortium may also serve specific library interests or activities, such as electronic resource licensing or resource sharing.  
      Governance frameworks 
      Library consortia can be established informally or formally, with few or many staff, and with widely differing procedures, funding models, and strategic mandates. The most prevalent governance frameworks can be classified by the underlying funding model of the consortium, which commonly include:  
      
       Membership fees 
       Government or public sponsorship 
       Administrative surcharges 
       Private funding
       
      Types of consortial work 
      Library consortia perform a variety of functions, typically focused on a few key activities, intended to serve their members and the wider community.  
      Licensing and content negotiation 
      The most traditional function of a library consortium is content negotiation. As publishers increasingly offer digital packages of content, such as scholarly databases, ebooks, electronic journals, streaming video and other digital content, library consortia provide negotiation power to ensure better agreements for their members. When negotiating with publishers, consortia staff focus both on obtaining a better price for their content and better licensing terms that are agreeable to the libraries. Libraries choose to work through consortia because they receive more resources for their money while expending less staff time in vendor negotiations. Publishers are incentivized to work with consortia because they receive more guaranteed income from increased participation. 
      In recent years, a major focus of consortial content negotiation is Open Access (OA). Many national consortia set and/or enforce national mandates for open scholarship, which dictate what types of scholarship must be published as OA. This is often done through licensing negotiations with major publishers. For example, the Danish National Library Authority's licensing negotiations “include price, conditions of use, open access in accordance with the support of the National Strategy For Open Access.” 
      Many of the agreements consortia make on behalf of institutions and researchers are called “transformative agreements,” meaning that they are transforming formerly paywalled content into open content. In the US, for example, the California Digital Library negotiated a deal with scientific publisher Elsevier in 2021 to ensure that all research produced by scholars working in the University of California system would be published as OA over a four-year period.  
      Shared technology infrastructure 
      A newer, but no less important function of the library consortium centers around technology resource sharing. For some consortia, this means centralized hosting of shared information systems. For example, consortia often host integrated library systems on behalf of networks of libraries, so that no single institution is responsible for the technical demands of the software. Other consortia host centralized repositories of digital materials, which could be themed around geographic regions (such as the Kentucky Digital Library devoted to digital archives from the Commonwealth of Kentucky) or subject matter (such as the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, a self-publishing repository for social, behavioral, and health sciences research data). 
      Some consortia are also hubs for software development, directly working with their library constituents to identify technological gaps in their institutions. These projects are often community-led and/or open source. For example, Jisc, based in the UK, developed IRUS, an Institutional Repository Usage Statistics software service, which calculates standards-based usage statistics for institutional repositories of university publishing. In an example of cross-consortial work in the US, the Pennsylvania Academic Library Consortium (PALCI) partnered with the Private Academic Library Network of Indiana (PALNI) to develop and pilot an open source, multi-tenant institutional repository specifically for consortia (Hyku for Consortia). 
      Other shared technology infrastructure initiatives might include open source software hosting, joint digitization services,&nbsp;and digital content accessibility testing.  
      Professional development 
      Many consortia provide professional development opportunities for their members. Different consortia provide paid or free opportunities for librarians to learn new skills, introduce new technologies, and learn about trends in the field. Many consortia internally develop in-person or online programming, and often host their own regular meetings and/or conferences to encourage networking and skill sharing amongst their members. The Professional Development Alliance is an effort to share professional development content amongst consortia.  
      Shared print programs 
      Library consortia help coordinate shared print programs, allowing institutions within certain geographic regions to maintain a practical number of copies of scholarly monographs. These programs “protect against the loss of resources as pressure grows to reduce and repurpose space in library buildings.” Shared print programs can be regional or national in scale. 
      Library consortia often cover many different activities not mentioned above, including, but not limited to: consulting services, grant funding, and industry research.  
      History in the United States 
      Library cooperation in the United States has been documented as early as 1867 with the American Library Association (ALA)’s Committee on Cooperation in Indexing and Cataloguing College Libraries. Despite the early cooperative activity, the earliest example of a formally established consortium would not arise until 1933 with the Triangle Research Libraries Network (TRLN), which was founded to serve the major academic libraries of North Carolina. 
      The 1960s and 1970s are considered the “heyday of consortia development” with many consortia established during this time period.  However, several significant developments in the United States between the late 1940s to the mid-1990s marked the current evolution of library consortia. 
      An early form of "shared print", now a widespread consortial activity, began in 1949 when the Center for Research Libraries (CRL) was founded as a consortium of ten major research libraries “…to conduct and maintain a place or places for the deposit, storage, care, delivery and exchange of books ... and other articles containing written, printed, or recorded matter". 
      In 1967, OCLC was formed for the purposes of shared library cataloging. As a focus of library activity, shared cataloging was accompanied by the spread of online catalog systems, and many new statewide and regional consortia coalesced around shared online catalog systems, particularly in the 1970s and continuing through the 1990s. Some of these consortia were associated with OCLC as “OCLC networks,” and these consortia often crossed state lines to cover broad regions of the United States. 
      By the mid-1990s, a new consortial activity rose to prominence: the collaborative licensing of electronic resources. Consortial licensing became a primary activity for many consortia as libraries transitioned from print-focused collection development to providing access to a growing number of online indices, databases and encyclopedias. The market of consortial licensing has continued unabated to the present, as content providers provide new content or new services, such as research support and publishing metrics.  
      Further reading 
      
       Dempsey, Lorcan (2018-02-28). "The powers of library consortia 1: how consortia scale capacity, learning, innovation and influence". *Orweblog. Retrieved 2022-01-13.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)
       
      See also 
      
       International Coalition of Library Consortia (ICOLC) 
       Project DEAL
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ 
           "Library Consortia". Universal Service Administrative Company. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Frequently Asked Questions - Library Consortium Management FAQ's | EIFL". www.eifl.net. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           Grogg, Jill; Rosen, Hannah (2020-10-21). "Consortia: An Evolving Landscape". Collaborative Librarianship. 12 (2). ISSN&nbsp;1943-7528.  
         ^ a b Horton, V. and Pronevitz, G. Library Consortia: Models for Collaboration and Sustainability. American Library Association (ALA), 2014. p. 8. ISBN 9780838912492.   
         ^ 
           "Participating Consortia | ICOLC Website". icolc.net. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Participating Consortia | ICOLC Website". icolc.net. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ a b c Burke, R. “Cooperation and Consortia”. Reference and Information Services: An Introduction, 5th Edition. ABC-CLIO, 2016. p.138-154. ISBN 9781440836978.   
         ^ 
           "COUPERIN". www.couperin.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "大学図書館コンソーシアム連合：JUSTICE". contents.nii.ac.jp. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "AMICAL Consortium". AMICAL Consortium. Retrieved 2021-10-29.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "NELLCO: Mission &amp; Values". NELLCO Law Library Consortium, Inc.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ Grogg, Jill (17 Apr. 2019). "Strategies for Cross-Boundary Consortial Collaboration". The Power of Library Consortia: How Publishers and Libraries Can Successfully Negotiate. https://www.niso.org/events/2019/04/power-library-consortia-how-publishers-and-libraries-can-successfully-negotiate. Retrieved 2019-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "A Snapshot of Priorities &amp; Perspectives: U.S. Library Consortia" (PDF). OCLC.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "Library consortia purchasing power | Emerald Publishing". www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           Turner, Christine N. (2014-01-30). "E-Resource Acquisitions in Academic Library Consortia". Library Resources &amp; Technical Services. 58 (1): 33–48. doi:10.5860/lrts.58n1.33. ISSN&nbsp;2159-9610.  
         ^ 
           tag. "Danmarks Nationale Strategi for Open Access — Uddannelses- og Forskningsministeriet". ufm.dk (in Danish). Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "UC secures landmark open access deal with world's largest scientific publisher". California Digital Library. 2021-03-16. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Buscador Timbó Foco". foco.timbo.org.uy. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "KYVL: KDL - Kentucky Digital Library: About". kyvl.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           "About openICPSR". www.openicpsr.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "IRUS | Jisc". irus.jisc.ac.uk. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "About the Project – Scaling Up a Collaborative Consortial Institutional Repository". Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Hosting-Client-Services". www.lyrasis.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Professional Development Services". CAUL. 2017-11-10. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Eğitimler – ANKOS" (in Turkish). Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Professional Development Alliance | SCELC". www.scelc.org. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Shared Print Program". Atla. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ Horton, V. and Pronevitz, G. Library Consortia: Models for Collaboration and Sustainability. American Library Association (ALA), 2014. p. 9. ISBN 9780838912492.   
         ^ Horton, V. and Pronevitz, G. Library Consortia: Models for Collaboration and Sustainability. American Library Association (ALA), 2014. p. 10. ISBN 9780838912492  
         ^ 
           "History of CRL | CRL". www.crl.edu. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ 
           "Frederick G. Kilgour Begins Development of OCLC&nbsp;: History of Information". www.historyofinformation.com. Retrieved 2021-10-29.  
         ^ Bailey-Hainer, Brenda (October 19, 2009). "The OCLC Network of Regional Service Providers: The Last 10 Years". Journal of Library Administration. 49 (6): 621–629. doi:10.1080/01930820903238792. ISSN 0193-0826. S2CID 61936408.  
         ^ 
           Anderson, Kent (2018-02-06). "Focusing on Value — 102 Things Journal Publishers Do (2018 Update)". The Scholarly Kitchen. Retrieved 2021-10-29.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library_consortium&amp;oldid=1065346669"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Library consortia
       Consortia
       Library-related organizations
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: url-status
       CS1 Danish-language sources (da)
       CS1 Turkish-language sources (tr)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Türkçe
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 13 January 2022, at 02:48&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
