
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
      
   
   
    
     
   
      
   
   
   
     
    
       Formalizing a discipline: The institutionalization of library and information science research in the Nordic countries
 |  Emerald Insight 
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
   
    
    
   
   
    
      
     
     
      
       
        Books and journals Case studies Expert Briefings Open Access 
        
       
      
     
      
       
         
        
        
       
      
     
     
      
        
        
       
       
        Advanced search 
        
       
      
     
      
     
     
      
        
        
       
      
     
    
    
     
      
       
        
         
         To read the full version of this content please select one of the options below: 
          
           
             
            
              Other access options   
             
              
               
                You may be able to access this content by logging in via your Emerald profile. 
                
                 Login   
                
               
               
                Rent this content from DeepDyve 
                
                 Rent from DeepDyve   
                
               
               
                If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team. 
                
                 Contact us   
                
               
              
             
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
         
         Please note you do not have access to teaching notes 
          
           
             
            
              Other access options   
             
              
               
                You may be able to access teaching notes by logging in via your Emerald profile. 
                
                 Login   
                
               
               
                If you think you should have access to this content, click to contact our support team. 
                
                 Contact us   
                
               
              
             
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        Formalizing a discipline: The institutionalization of library and information science research in the Nordic countries 
          Fredrik Åström 
            (Lund University Libraries, Lund, Sweden)
        " contrib-count="1" affil-count="1"> 
          
           
             Fredrik Åström  (Lund University Libraries, Lund, Sweden) 
            
          
         
         
          
           Journal of Documentation  
            ISSN: 0022-0418   
           Article publication date: 5 September 2008  
             
               
          
          
           
           Downloads 
              1109  
            
           
            
            
           
          
         
        
       
      
     
     
      
       
        
        Abstract 
         
         Purpose 
           – 
          The paper's objective is to analyze the social organization of library and information Science (LIS) using the Nordic countries as example, focusing on organizational setting, research work and relations between LIS and academia as well as the field of professional practice. 
          
         
         
         Design/methodology/approach 
           – 
          Based on a framework for analyzing scientific fields, as well as its application on LIS, aspects relating to the impact of contextual factors on research was identified and discussed based on information from, e.g. LIS institution web sites. The results were discussed, not only in relation to the framework primarily utilized, but also from a less disciplinary view on research organization, for analytical contrast. 
          
         
         
         Findings 
           – 
          A close connection between academic affiliation and research orientation was found, reflected in organizational issues, media for communicating research and access to resources. This relates to general issues of levels of independence from other disciplines and lay groups, to what extent research is evaluated by intra‐disciplinary standards and to the level of consensus on terminology and research processes. 
          
         
         
         Research limitations/implications 
           – 
          Limiting the study to institutions in one particular geographical area, where several institutions being at an early stage of formalization, the possibility of reaching generalizable conclusions is limited. The strength of the conclusions is also somewhat restrained due to the nature of the empirical material, being based on web documents with varying levels of exhaustability in terms of data provision. 
          
         
         
         Originality/value 
           – 
          The intellectual organization of LIS research is well‐known, whereas social and institutional aspects have been analyzed to a lesser degree; and with the differences in age and size of Nordic LIS institutions, they provide an interesting case of contemporary institutionalization of LIS research. 
          
         
        
        
        Keywords 
         
          Research 
          Scandinavia 
          Information science and documentation 
          Organizational design 
         
        
        
        Citation 
         Åström, F. (2008), "Formalizing a discipline: The institutionalization of library and information science research in the Nordic countries", Journal of Documentation, Vol. 64 No. 5, pp. 721-737. https://doi.org/10.1108/00220410810899736  
          
         
        
        
        Publisher: 
        Emerald Group Publishing Limited 
        
        Copyright © 2008, Emerald Group Publishing Limited  
       
       
        
       
      
     
     
    
     
      
       
        
        
         
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
          Opens in new window 
         
        
       
        © 2022 Emerald Publishing Limited
        
       
       
       Services 
        
        Authors Opens in new window 
        Editors Opens in new window 
        Librarians Opens in new window 
        Researchers Opens in new window 
        Reviewers Opens in new window 
        
       
       
       About 
        
        About Emerald Opens in new window 
        Working for Emerald Opens in new window 
        Contact us Opens in new window 
        Publication sitemap 
        
       
       
       Policies and information 
        
        Privacy notice 
        Site policies 
        Modern Slavery Act Opens in new window 
        Chair of Trustees governance statement Opens in new window 
        COVID-19 policy Opens in new window 
        Accessibility 
        
       
      
     
    
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     ×  
    
    
     
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
      Support &amp; Feedback  
        Manage cookies  
    
    
     
      
       
       We’re listening — tell us what you think 
        
         Something didn’t work… Report bugs here  
         All feedback is valuable Please share your general feedback  
         Member of Emerald Engage? You can join in the discussion by joining the community or logging in here.You can also find out more about Emerald Engage.  
        
       
       
       Join us on our journey 
        
         Platform update page Visit emeraldpublishing.com/platformupdate to discover the latest news and updates  
         Questions &amp; More Information Answers to the most commonly asked questions here  
        
       
      
     
    
   
   
   
   
    
 
