
 
  
   
  Music library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Music library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Music library, Leipzig, 1985
        
       
       
      A music library contains music-related materials for patron use. Collections may also include non-print materials, such as digitized music scores or audio recordings. Use of such materials may be limited to specific patron groups, especially in private academic institutions. Music library print collections include dictionaries and encyclopedias, indexes and directories, printed music, music serials, bibliographies, and other music literature.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Types 
        2 Musical instrument library 
        3 Other uses 
        4 See also 
        5 References 
        6 Further reading 
        7 External links 
        
       
      Types 
      Traditionally, there are four types of music libraries:  
      
       Those developed to support departments of music in university or college settings; 
       Those developed to support conservatories and schools of music; 
       Those housed within public libraries; 
       Those developed as independent libraries or archives supporting music organizations.
       
      Musical instrument library 
      A musical instrument library lends or shares musical instruments. Examples can be found in Canada; Perth, Australia; and Massachusetts, Illinois, Ohio, Washington and New Paltz, New York in the United States. Such libraries producing diapason is varying from orchestral instruments to ethno. 
      With the development of the media industry (film production, production of computer games, advertising), musical works created using digital technologies have become especially in demand. Such a genre of musical composition as trailer music was born - music for film advertising (trailer, teaser). A similar genre is characterized by the use of various audio effects libraries and musical instruments. Over the past decade, a galaxy of digital musical instrument library companies has grown. Among the companies, such giants as Spitfire, Cinesamples, Heavyocity, Soundiron, Native 
      Instruments etc. Some are focused on reproducing the sounds of the instruments of the classical orchestra in digital format, others on creating libraries of traditional folk instruments. Famous such libraries as of Arabic instruments, Turkish, Iranian, Indian, Japanese and others. The companies are focused on the production of digital instrument libraries, which are almost as good as the living ones in sound quality. Digitalization of musical instruments is a historical process that takes place in technogenic civilizations.  
      Other uses 
      
       Production music libraries license their copyrighted music for use in film, television, and radio productions. 
       Performance libraries serve performing music groups, particularly large orchestras, by acquiring, preparing, and maintaining music for performance. 
       Digital music libraries and archives preserve recordings and digitized scores or literature in a variety of electronic formats. Many music libraries dedicate part of their duties to digitizing parts of their collection and maintaining digital files. Digital preservation requires specific procedures to avoid decay, obsolescence, and loss. Digital materials may be part of a larger, physical collection, or may compose an entirely electronic collection not physically accessible (usually housed on a network or on the Internet). Access may be limited as a fee-based service, a private service to specific user groups (such as students at a conservatory), or freely accessible to the public.
       
      See also 
      
       List of online music databases 
       Music librarianship 
       Music Library Association, the main professional organization for the field. 
       Manguinhos Library Park, Rio de Janeiro (includes a music room) 
       Universal Circulating Music Library
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Joe's M.I.L.L." Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Archived from the original on 30 December 2011. Retrieved 3 May 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Toronto Public Library creates city's 1st musical instrument lending program", CBC, 7 April 2016  
         ^ "Instrument Lenders Canada Archived 2013-06-11 at the Wayback Machine ... an instrument lending library, situated in Perth County, which supplies instruments mainly to youth at no cost for up to 6 months." 
           Perth County Social Research and Planning Council (2007), Voices of Youth  
         ^ "The Musary, a Hamilton-based nonprofit "lending library" of musical instruments." 
           James Sullivan (15 Dec 2011), "Sharing the music: in honor of a late Hamilton resident, lending library brings instruments to students at the Beverly School for the Deaf", Boston Globe  
         ^ The South Shore Folk Music Club of Kingston, Massachusetts, maintains an instrument lending library. 
           Judith Montminy (27 Sep 1998), "For club, it's been 20 years strumming", Boston Globe  
         ^ 
           Sheffield Bushnell-Sage Library. Ukulele. Massachusetts: CW/MARS. Retrieved Oct 14, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Oddmusic Instrumentarium". Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, US. 2010-03-21. Retrieved 3 May 2012.  
         ^ 
           "Guitar Lending Collection at Licking County Library", Library as Incubator Project, USA, December 2014  
         ^ 
           Seelye, Katharine Q. (March 7, 2014), "Breaking Out of the Library Mold, in Boston and Beyond", New York Times, retrieved March 8, 2014  
         ^ 
           Ward, Terence P. "Music for the masses: The New Paltz instrument library". Hudson Valley One. Retrieved 2017-03-16.  
         ^ 
           Khandamian, Victor (2021). "Building a Library of Samples (Kontakt) of The Uzbek Traditional Dutar". Eurasian music science journal. 1: 45–52. doi:10.52847/EAMSJ/vol_2021_issue_1/53.  
         ^ 
           Jeffrey Schnapp; Matthew Battles (2014). Library Beyond the Book. Harvard University Press. ISBN&nbsp;978-0-674-72503-4.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       Anderson, Gillian B. "Putting the Experience of the World at the Nation's Command: Music at the Library of Congress, 1800-1917", Journal of the American Musicological Society, vol. 42 (1989), no. 1, p. -149. 
       
        Brown, James Duff (1893), Guide to the formation of a music library, London: Sipkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent &amp; Co., OL&nbsp;14010621M 
       Bibliothèque nationale (France), Département de la Phonothèque nationale et de l'Audiovisuel = The National  Record and Audiovisual Department of the National Library . : Bibliothèque nationale, . 9 p. 
       International Association of Music Libraries. Bibliothèques d'établissement d'enseignement musical: Répertoire européen = Libraries in Music Teaching Institution: European Directory. : International Association of Music Libraries, 1994. N.B.: Title and some of the text also in German. Without ISBN 
       Langridge, Derek. Your Jazz Collection. London: C. Bingley, 1970. N.B.: Concerns both library and private jazz music collections. SBN 85157-100-X 
       Lewis, Larry, ed. Union List of Music Periodicals in Canadian Libraries. Second ed. Ottawa, Ont.: Canadian Association of Music Libraries, 1981. N.B.: The title and introd. are also in French. 
       McColvin, Lionel, and Harold Reeves. Music Libraries. Original ed. by Lionel Roy McColvin and Harold Reeves; completely re-written, rev., and extended by Jack Dove, in series, Grafton Book. London: A. Deutsch, 1965. 2 vol. N.B.: Vol. 1 is a study of such libraries and of music librarianship; vol. 2 is a bibliog. of music literature published from 1957 to 1965. 
       Music Library Association. Committee on Musical Instrument Collections. A Survey of Musical Instrument Collections in the United States and Canada, conducted by a committee of the Music Library Association, William Lichtenwanger, chairman &amp; compiler; ed. and produced by James W. Pruitt. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Music Library Association, 1974. xi, 137 p. 
        ISBN&nbsp;0-914954-00-8 
       Music Library Association. New England Chapter. Directory of Music Libraries and Collections in New England. 9th ed. Providence, R.I.: The Chapter, 1994. Lacks ISBN or ISSN.
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Music libraries.
         
       
       
      
       Florida State University Music Library - Contains useful links to electronic resources. 
       YouTube Audio Library - No Copyright Music 
       Improving Availability of Print Collections: A Case Study at the College-Conservatory of Music Library - by David Sandor, MLA Forum, 6, 2008. 
       Songwriting-guide.com/music-library - Contains more info about music libraries. 
       Music Library Association 
       https://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/gsc1994009872/PP/ 
       Photo of proprietors of Oddmusic Instrumentarium, an instrument library in Illinois, USA, 2009
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             France (data) 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Music_library&amp;oldid=1067777763"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Music archives
       Music production
       Music industry
       Music libraries
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Webarchive template wayback links
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       日本語
       Русский
       Slovenščina
       Türkçe
       Українська
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 25 January 2022, at 03:30&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
