
 
  
   
  Hybrid library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Hybrid library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:&nbsp;"Hybrid library"&nbsp;–&nbsp;news&nbsp;· newspapers&nbsp;· books&nbsp;· scholar&nbsp;· JSTOR (August 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Hybrid library is a term used by librarians to describe libraries containing a mix of traditional print library resources and the growing number of electronic resources.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
        2 Issues in hybrid library 
          
          2.1 Collection development 
          2.2 Ownership of electronic resources 
          2.3 Preservation of digital media 
          2.4 Technology preservation, emulation, and migration 
           
        3 References 
        
       
      Overview 
      Hybrid libraries are mixes of traditional print material such as books and magazines, as well as electronic based material such as downloadable audiobooks, electronic journals, e-books, etc. Hybrid libraries are the new norm in most public and academic libraries. 
      It seems that the term "hybrid library" was first coined in 1998 by Chris Rusbridge in an article for D-Lib Magazine. 
      Hybrid libraries evolved in the 1990s when electronic resources became more easily available for libraries to acquire for public use. Initially these electronic resources were typically access to material distributed on media such as CD-ROM or searches of specialised databases. OCLC helped push libraries towards acquiring digital resources by providing a centralized technology resource for participating libraries. Now, with the widespread availability of digital content, it includes Internet resources and documents which are online, such as eprints. 
      The libraries own and subscribe to different resources in different formats. Some of the common formats are ejournals, serials, print monographs, CD and DVD. The main components of digital library framework are user interfaces, repository, handle system, and search system. The handle system and search system are the major components that should be designed with interoperability features to search across different repositories owned by different vendors. The user interface should be designed in a generic way that it helps library patrons develop a common knowledge to do advanced searches across all repositories. 
      Hybrid libraries are the new norm for many archivists as well. Digitization has changed the way archivists have gone about preserving historical items. Archivists are now using digital technology to preserve items that were once only preserved by things like microfiche. Archivists now use things like digital imaging which make it possible for researchers to see historical items online. 
      The emergence of the hybrid library has put a new emphasis on copyright issues for many libraries. The complicated and changing copyright laws in both the United States and the European Union have made it a challenge for many libraries to make sure their patrons are using the digital items lawfully. 
      Hybrid libraries need staff that are trained in helping patrons navigate the vast amount of information available in the digital age. Librarians working in hybrid libraries have training in electronic media as well as the traditional print forms.  
      Issues in hybrid library 
      Some of the issues facing the hybrid libraries are the digital divide, interoperability, collection development, ownership of electronic resources and preservation of digital media. 
      Any advancement in information technology will be useful only when you know how to use it. The term digital divide is used to describe the gap between those with information technology knowledge and those who do not.]  
      Collection development 
      Collection development is another challenge facing the hybrid libraries. The process of collection management in a hybrid library is similar to that of a traditional library. Hybrid libraries follow the same policies and procedures followed in traditional library collection development.  
      Ownership of electronic resources 
      Ownership of electronic resources is another issue facing the hybrid libraries. Ownership of electronic materials is virtual and not physical. There are no clear policies about the ownership of electronic materials once the subscription is cancelled or expired. Libraries have to pay attention to the legal contracts from the database vendors. If the libraries plan on archiving the electronic resources, then there are legal issues related to it. The most prominent legal issues are intellectual property and authenticity of digital information.  
      Preservation of digital media 
      With any new advanced technology related to digital information storage, the main question to be answered is its durability. Digital storage media like disc or tapes deteriorate over time. The main question related to digital preservation is what and how much should be preserved. To make the preservation of digital media cost effective, standardization of different media format is required. Following are the three possible approaches.  
      Technology preservation, emulation, and migration 
      In technology preservation, both hardware and software related to digital information are preserved. This may not be cost effective because changes to hardware and different versions of software need to be either maintained or constantly upgraded. 
      In emulation, some emulator software programs will mimic the hardware and software of the original data and display in the original format. 
      In migration, digital information is converted to a standard media with standard format.  
      References 
        
      
       
       
         
         ^ Adolphus, M (2016). "The hybrid librarian". emeraldgrouppublishing.com. Retrieved 15 November 2021.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
         ^ 
           Allen, L. (15 November 2021). "Hybrid librarians in the 21st Century library: A collaborative service-staffing model. ACRL Twelfth National Conference, Minneapolis. Minnesota". ACRL Twelfth National Conference.  
         ^ Chris Rusbridge: "Toward the Hybrid Library", D-Lib Magazine, July–August 1998.  
         ^ Malinconico, S. Michael: "Digital Preservation Technologies and Hybrid Libraries," Information Services and Use, 159(74): 173, 2002  
         ^ Arms, W. Y., Blanchi, C., &amp; Overly, E. A.: "An Architecture for Information in Digital Libraries". D-Lib Magazine, February 1997.  
         ^ Malinconico, S. Michael: "Digital Preservation Technologies and Hybrid Libraries," Information Services and Use, 159(74): 162, 2002  
         ^ Oppenheim, Charles: "Copyright Issues in Digitisation and the Hybrid Library," Information Services and Use, 203(7): 204.  
         ^ Choemprayong, S.: Closing Digital Divides: The United States' Policies, 2006.  
         ^ a b Chowdhury, G. &amp; Chowdhury, S.: Introduction to Digital Libraries. London: Facet Publication, 2003.   
         ^ Oppenheim,C.,&amp; Smithson,D.1999). What is the hybrid library?. Journal of information science, 25(2), 97-112.  
         ^ Yong, Z. J. X. (2001).  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hybrid libraries.
         
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hybrid_library&amp;oldid=1058198991"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Libraries by type
       Types of library
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: url-status
       All articles with vague or ambiguous time
       Vague or ambiguous time from August 2010
       Vague or ambiguous geographic scope from August 2010
       Articles needing additional references from August 2010
       All articles needing additional references
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from August 2010
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Magyar
       Português
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 2 December 2021, at 01:54&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
