
 
  
   
  Prison library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Prison library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
       Library in a correctional facility
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           This article is written like a personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (March 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      Libraries are provided in many prisons. Reading materials are provided in almost all federal and state correctional facilities in the United States. Libraries in federal prisons are controlled by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, U.S. Department of Justice. State prison libraries are controlled by each state's own department of corrections. Many local jails also provide library services through partnerships with local public libraries and community organizations. These resources may be limited, mostly provided through government sources.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Role 
        2 Challenges 
        3 International institutions 
          
          3.1 United States 
          3.2 Canada 
          3.3 China, People's Republic of 
          3.4 England and Wales 
          3.5 France 
          3.6 Germany 
          3.7 Italy 
          3.8 Japan 
          3.9 Poland 
          3.10 Spain 
           
        4 Role of libraries in lives of ex-prisoners 
        5 American Library Association 
        6 Bibliography 
        7 References 
        8 External links 
        
       
      Role 
      Prison libraries serve both prisoners and the public by helping to educate prisoners, reduce recidivism, and improve family bonds through reading. 
      Research shows a correlation between education and reduced recidivism, and libraries play an important role in supporting education. In fact, in some states, prisoners are sentenced to a literature discussion group in lieu of prison time. One such program, Changing Lives Through Literature (CLTL), has been operating since 1991. The first CLTL group in Massachusetts had a 19 percent recidivism rate as compared to 42 percent in a control group. Education allows inmates to obtain the skills they need to transition back into society once they are released and libraries can play in an important role in helping inmates learn these skills. Some programs prison libraries offer include, GED instruction, literacy classes, life skills classes, typing instruction, and classes on how to use a library. 
      In addition to educational opportunities, prison libraries help prisoners have positive and meaningful contact with family. For example, the Jessup Correctional Institute in Maryland started a program that provided books for prisoners to read to their children or grandchildren on visiting days. Other prison libraries have programs in which prisoners are recorded reading stories, and the tapes and books, along with a coloring book and crayons, are sent to their child. Some inmates try to read the same materials their children are reading, so they have something to talk about with them. 
      Prison libraries provide a space for inmates to meet with others with common interests. Though funding is limited, some prison librarians are diligent in providing programming. Such programs include, book clubs and community service projects. Many inmates utilize the library as a means of escape from the reality of their current situations. One of the many services provided by a prison librarian is to have conversation with the inmates regarding the reasons they are in their current situation, After which, the librarian will make catalog suggestions to the inmate that will give them guidance in future decision making.  
      Challenges 
      Funding and space are two major challenges for prison libraries. Prison libraries are on the low end of budget priorities for prisons. It is difficult to provide up-to-date information and classes with a limited budget and space. Associated with limited budgets are time constraints. Some prison library staff feel they do not have the time to complete all of the tasks they need to because prison libraries are under-staffed. Interestingly, recent technological developments such as the choice to transition to tablet-based has led to prison elimination of law libraries in South Dakota and has threatened to end book donations to prisoners and their libraries in favor of charging prisoners for books available in e-book format. Another challenge is the literacy of inmates. For example, in the United States, "seventy-five percent of the state prison population did not complete high school or are classified as low literate". Other challenges include security risks. Some librarians feel like they are guards and other libraries are monitored by correctional officers. Finally, some libraries have to deal with damage and theft of items. 
      An interesting challenge in the development of prison libraries in the US came about in the Steven Hayes case, where library collection policies, and patron (prisoner privacy) came into question. It was suspected that Hayes' reading choices in his former prison "fueled his crimes". The prosecutors in his case wanted to see Hayes' reading lists after he was convicted of the murder, kidnapping and sexual assault of members of the Petit family. This issue is contentious because according to normal library policies, patron privacy is a very serious matter, and the question of whether it changes within a prison library was highly debated. Conrad does not mention that any real rulings and/or concrete decisions have been reached as there are strong arguments both for maintaining prisoners' privacy, as with any other patron, and there are arguments for that privacy to be made available to ensure that there is no danger to the prisoner, prison population or general public. 
      Censorship is another major challenge reported by prison libraries. The Federal Bureau of Prisons regulations state that publication can only be rejected if they are found to be "detrimental to the security, good order, or discipline of the institution or if it might facilitate criminal activity." However, prisons censor materials far beyond these guidelines. Restrictions on the content of materials in prison libraries are imposed by prison authorities such as wardens, administrators, and security personnel, resulting in the infringement on prisoner's right to read. "Both formal and informal processes of censorship occur in the prison, and there is significant variation in which materials are censored from one institution to the next."  
      International institutions 
      United States 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Library books, Guantanamo prison, 2011
        
       
       
      America has had prison libraries since 1790. The first state prison library was established in 1802. At the beginning of the 19th century prisons were usually operated by the clergy. The purpose of the library was to increase religious devotion and modify behaviour. In many prisons during this time period the library collection consisted only of the Bible and sometimes prayer books. According to Lehmann (2011), "The main purpose of reading was believed to be strengthening of character, religious devotion, and what we today would call behavior modification. By the mid-nineteenth century, penology (the study, theory, and practice of prison management and criminal rehabilitation) had become more scientific, and criminologists claimed that they knew the reasons for criminal behavior and, consequently, how to reform criminals." 
      In 1870, during the Progressive Period and Prison Reform Movement, the Prison Congress began calling for rehabilitation of convicts instead of retribution, and education and rewards for good behaviour. The library was seen as an incentive and only contained items which furthered the reformative goals of the prison. The first manual for prison libraries was published by the American Library Association in 1915. 
      During the Great Depression prison libraries were expanded. With a decline in industrial demands prisoners became idle and restless and libraries were seen as a way to occupy them. In 1930, a manual for prison libraries was published by the American Correctional Association. The library was believed to be wholesome recreation, which also supported education and mental health, and there was great growth in federal prison libraries for the next four decades. 
      State correctional facilities began to see growth in prison libraries in the 1970s when the Library Services and Construction Act was authorized by Congress. In 1974, two Massachusetts cases – Wolf v. McDonnell and Stone v. Boone – mandated that prisons provide on-site libraries, which paved the way for Bounds v. Smith, 430 U.S. 817 (1977). Bounds v. Smith ruled that prisons were required to provide access to people trained in law or law library collections in order to meet the constitutional requirement of meaningful access to the courts. In 1996, Lewis v. Casey, 518 U.S. 343 (1996), limited the requirement placed on correctional facilities. Following Lewis many libraries reduced their collections. 
      Lewis v. Casey ruled that prisoners do not have an absolute right to a law library. Rather an inmate must show that he was unable to pursue a legal claim because of the inadequacy of the law library. In other words, lack of an adequate law library caused the inmate actual injury. The ruling in Lewis makes it much more difficult to seek improvement to a prison's law library. As one court pointed out, the ability to litigate a claim of denial of access demonstrates that the inmate has no denial of access. However, some believe that Lewis is not as devastating as it appears to be and Bounds v. Smith still remains good law. Post-9/11, prison library budgets were slashed. 
      As of 2013 the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba has a library of some 18,000 books. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, there were 1,505,400 Federal and State Prisoners in the United States. The United States incarcerates more people than any other nation in the world.  
      Canada 
      The first prison library in Canada was formed in the 19th century. In the 1980s, the Correctional Service of Canada commissioned two reports on institutional libraries throughout Canada, the analysis of which defined the role of prison libraries and made recommendations to support these roles. However, many of the challenges identified in these reports still exist, but many improvements were made until drastic budget and staffing cutbacks were made in 1994. While prison libraries are required to support all correctional programs, including education and access to legal and non-legal materials, they have not been spared budget cuts and are struggling to maintain existing programs. Often funds are spent on materials rather than staff. 
      However, progress has been made on publishing standards, and most institutional libraries have a procedures manual. In addition, they have been able to establish a Regional Multi-Lingual Collection and a Regional Aboriginal Collection, in response to the diversity of people within the prison system. Finally, some progress has been made in getting library staff back and all new hires are required to be certified library technicians.  
      China, People's Republic of 
      In prisons dedicated towards common (non-political) prisoners, the right to access reading material is guaranteed, conditional upon good behaviour, including satisfactory performance in duties assigned. During the Cultural Revolution, however, camps operated by the reform through labour program were not guaranteed reading materials beyond the works of Mao Zedong.  
      England and Wales 
      Prisons are required by statute to have a library and permit all prisoners to access the library. Unlike most countries, prison libraries in England and Wales are required to staff a professional librarian and there are minimum staffing requirements. The vision of the prison libraries is to provide services similar to those of public libraries. CILIP's Prison Library Group actively supports prison libraries in England and Wales through promotion, policy, advice, continuing education, networking, advocacy, mentoring, publishing, and involvement. Between 2005 and 2008 prison libraries' funding almost doubled. Prison libraries must meet required standards and are subject to inspection.  
      France 
      France has had prison libraries since the mid-19th century. They were established primarily through prison funds or donations made by prisoners. Today, prison libraries are mandated by France's Criminal Procedure Code. However, according to Cramard, these libraries vary in size, location, inmate access time, etc. In addition, while all prisons are required to have a library there is no requirement for them to have a librarian and many have partnered with local public libraries to meet their needs. 
      "In order to introduce a larger audience to the institution libraries, the SPIP quickly took the initiative to develop a series of projects around books, literature, and writing." Projects include regularly scheduled workshops, such as writing skills classes, reading groups, reading workshops, and storytelling workshops, and one-time events, such as meetings with writers and illustrators and writing workshops. However, prison libraries are still a work-in-progress and the Prison Administration has declared that in 2008–2010 transforming prison libraries would be a priority.  
      Germany 
      Prison libraries have existed in Germany since the 19th century and were run by the clergy. The libraries contained religious materials from various denominations, which inmates were encouraged to read and discuss. In the 20th century prison libraries were run by teachers. It was not until professional librarians began operating inside prison libraries that they began to really develop; however, not all German prison libraries employ a professional librarian. The purpose of the prison library is to provide recreation, support education, and help with the personal development of inmates. Every inmate has the right to access a library and most prisons have a library. However, the law makes no specifics about the organization or contents of the library. And, economic troubles and the closing of the German Library Institute and Commission for Special User Groups have made it difficult for libraries to provide adequate services and the social responsibility of libraries is rarely discussed. But, Münster Correctional Facility Library's winning of the German Library Award has drawn attention to prison libraries and inspired many to be advocates for library services to those with special needs.  
      Italy 
      Prison libraries in Italy have been around since the beginning of the 20th century and were funded by donations. However, it was not until the 1970s, when Italy enacted a law to reform its prisons, did every prison become required to have a library. However, little in the law has changed since then, and libraries are operated by educators rather than professional librarians. There is quite a disparity between prison libraries in Italy, with some being very adequate and beautiful while others are barely operational, and still some prisons have no library at all. 
      The prison administration is responsible for the operation of prison libraries, services are provided by the government or volunteer groups, and professional aspects are monitored by the university and the Italian Library Association. A new interest by the central prison administration will hopefully lead to positive changes in the prison library system. However, according to Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, Italy's prison libraries are still in need of a central organization for direction, monitoring, and standards.  
      Japan 
      Japan prisons do not have librarians or a designated library space. Some reading materials are provided, but they are spread throughout the prison. There is essentially no control over these materials, there are no partnerships with public libraries, and Japanese inmates prefer to obtain their reading materials through purchase or from friends and family. 
      Japanese law mandates that inmates have access to reading materials and there is much regulation as to what reading materials inmates may possess and inspection procedures. However, the only mention of a "prison library" is a provision requiring that the warden make reading materials available. There are also policies and procedures regulating these materials. Education staff, not librarians, manage these collections.  
      Poland 
      In 1989, Poland reformed its prison system from punitive to rehabilitative, which allowed for the development of prison libraries. The goals of the prison libraries are related to the rehabilitation of inmates and, as such, collections are focused on materials that provide support for rehabilitative activities. The extent of a library collection reflects how strongly the prison administration believes in reading's influence on rehabilitation, but actual titles are chosen by library staff. The libraries are usually operated by education staff, not librarians. While there are problems with Poland's prison libraries, such as limited space, cataloguing issues, and limited hours of access, there are dedicated employees within the system that value the role education and books play in rehabilitation and are helping to provide inmates with options for leisure activities and social development.  
      Spain 
      In the late 19th century the first schools, and libraries to support those schools, were opened in prisons in Spain. The current structure of prison libraries in Spain was developed in the 1970s, and Spanish law requires that all correctional institutions have a library. In 1999, libraries were removed from the education department and placed under the cultural department. There is national support for prison libraries and many have seen growth in their collections, training for staff, and the collection of statistics. However, there is still much room for improvement. Prison libraries are still in need of professional library staff, full separation from the education department so more library focused services, such as reference, are provided, and more cooperation and networking between libraries.  
      Role of libraries in lives of ex-prisoners 
      Libraries are important not only during the term of a prisoner's incarceration but also when the prisoner is released back into society. This is especially true of prisoners of who have spent a long time being incarcerated, as public libraries offer beneficial services. The Hartford Public Library, for example, offers ex-offender resources that include reentry and support services. Their website offers different links and resource information from employment help to family counseling. The Denver Public Library even offers to "sign off" on the time that ex-offenders spend in classes offered in job searching.  
      American Library Association 
      The American Library Association (ALA) works to provide library services to incarcerated adults and their families in the United States. ALA policy 8.2 (formerly 52.1) states, "The American Library Association encourages public libraries and systems to extend their services to residents of jails and other detention facilities within their taxing areas." In addition, The Intellectual Freedom Committee has interpreted the Library Bill of Rights to include Prisoners' Right to Read. The Special Interest Group "Library Services to the Incarcerated and Detained" provides support to those who serve patrons of any age who are held in jail, prison, detention or immigration facility.  
      Bibliography 
      
       Bowe, C. (2011). Recent trends in UK prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;427–445. 
       Clark, Sheila, and Erica MacCreaigh. (2006). Library services to the incarcerated: applying the public library model in correctional facility libraries. Westport, Conn: Libraries Unlimited. 
       Costanzo, E. &amp; Montecchi, G. (2011). Prison libraries in Italy. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;509–519. 
       Cramard, O. (2011). The long development of prison libraries in France. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;544–562. 
       Curry, A., Wolf, K., Boutilier, S., &amp; Chan, H. (2003). Canadian federal prison libraries: A national survey. Journal of Librarianship and Information Science, 35(3), p.&nbsp;141–152. 
       Darby, L. T. (2004). Libraries in the American penal system. Rural Libraries, 24(2), p.&nbsp;7–20. 
       Gerken, J. L. (2003). Does Lewis v. Casey spell the end to court-ordered improvement of prison law libraries? Law Library Journal, 95(4), p.&nbsp;491–513. 
       Greenway, S. A. (2007). Library services behind bars. Bookmobile Outreach Services, 10(2), p.&nbsp;43–61. 
       Ings, C. &amp; Joslin, J. (2011). Correctional Service of Canada Prison Libraries from 1980 to 2010. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;386–408. 
       Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and accomplishments in U.S. prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;490–508. 
       McCook, de la Peña K. (2004). Public Libraries and People in Jail. Reference and User Services Quarterly, 44(1), 26–30 
       Marshall, A. M. J. (2011). Library services in correctional settings. Information Outlook, 15(1), p.&nbsp;24–26. 
       Nakane, K. (2011). "Prison libraries" in Japan: The current situation of access to books and reading in correctional institutions. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;446–459. 
       NPR. (2011). Prison library offers place to escape. 
       Peschers, G. (2011). Books open worlds for people behind bars: Library services in prison as exemplified by the Münster Prison Library, Germany's "Library of the Year 2007." Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;520–543. 
       Pulido, M. P. (2011). Library services in Spanish prisons: Current state of affairs. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;460–472. 
       Rubin, R. J. (1973). U.S. prison library services and their theoretical bases. Occasional Papers, No. 110. 
       Sussman, D. B. (2014). Reading Reduces Recidivism: Getting Books to Prison Libraries. ILA Reporter, 32(6), 4-7 
       Zybert, E. B. (2011). Prison libraries in Poland: Partners in rehabilitation, culture, and education. Library Trends, 59(3), p.&nbsp;409–426.
       
      References 
      
       
        
        ^ a b c Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and accomplishments in U.S. prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3), p. 490–508.  
        ^ Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and accomplishments in U.S. prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3),p.490  
        ^ Rabina, D., &amp; Drabinski, E. (2015). Reference services to incarcerated people, Part II: sources and learning outcomes. Reference &amp; User Services Quarterly, (2), 123.  
        ^ Marshall, A. M. J. (2011). Library services in correctional settings. Information Outlook, 15(1), p. 24–26  
        ^ Sussman, D. B. (2014). Reading Reduces Recidivism: Getting Books to Prison Libraries. ILA Reporter, 32(6), p. 7  
        ^ Greenway, S. A. (2007). Library services behind bars. Bookmobile Outreach Services, 10(2), p. 43–61.  
        ^ a b NPR. (2011). Prison library offers place to escape.  
        ^ (Greenway, p.&nbsp;54)  
        ^ a b c "A Day in the Life of a Prison Librarian&nbsp;» Public Libraries Online". publiclibrariesonline.org. Retrieved 2018-04-02.  
        ^ (Greenway, p.&nbsp;55–56)  
        ^ (Greenway, p.&nbsp;56)  
        ^ 
          Initiative, Prison Policy. "More states are signing harmful "free prison tablet" contracts". Retrieved 2020-07-19. }: |first= has generic name (help)  
        ^ 
          "Programming in Prison Libraries&nbsp;» Public Libraries Online". Retrieved 2021-08-01.  
        ^ a b (Greenway, p.&nbsp;57)  
        ^ Conrad, S. (2014). Collection Development and Circulation Policies in Prison libraries: An Exploratory Survey of Librarians in US Correctional Institutions. The Library Quarterly: Information, Community, Policy 82(4). 407-427.  
        ^ 
          Conrad, Suzanna (2017-10-11). "Collection Development and Circulation Policies in Prison Libraries: An Exploratory Survey of Librarians in US Correctional Institutions (2012)". National Institute of Corrections. The Library Quarterly. Retrieved 2021-08-01.}: CS1 maint: url-status (link)  
        ^ 
          Losowsky, Andrew. "Prison Books Ban: The Censorship Scandal Inside America's Jails". The Huffington Post. Retrieved 8 April 2016.  
        ^ 
          Shirley, Glennor. "Censorship and Prison Libraries". Diversity &amp; Outreach Columns. ALA's Office for Diversity, Literacy, and Outreach Services. Archived from the original on 23 April 2016. Retrieved 8 April 2016.  
        ^ 
          Arford, Tammi (July 2013). Captive Knowledge: Censorship and Control in Prison Libraries (PDF) (Thesis). Northeastern University.  
        ^ a b c Rubin, R. J. (1973). U.S. prison library services and their theoretical bases. Occasional Papers, No. 110.  
        ^ Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and accomplishments in U.S. prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3), p. 491.  
        ^ 
          freeman, Robert (2003). Libraries to the people: Histories of Outreach. McFarland &amp; Company. p.&nbsp;114. ISBN&nbsp;0-7864-1359-X.  
        ^ Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and Accomplishments in U.S. Prison Libraries. Library Trends 59(3), p. 491  
        ^ Lehmann, V. (2011). Challenges and accomplishments in U.S. prison libraries. Library Trends, 59(3), p. 490–508  
        ^ Rubin, R. J. (1973). U.S. prison library services and their theoretical bases. Occasional Papers, No. 110, p. 4.  
        ^ Rubin, R. J. (1973). U.S. prison library services and their theoretical bases. Occasional Papers, No. 110, p.4.  
        ^ 
          Clark, Sheila; MacCreaigh, Erica (2006). Library services to the incarcerated: applying the public library model in correctional facility libraries. Westport, Conn: Libraries Unlimited. p.&nbsp;4. ISBN&nbsp;9780313090615.  
        ^ Gerken, J. L. (2003). Does Lewis v. Casey spell the end to court-ordered improvement of prison law libraries? Law Library Journal, 95(4), p. 491–513.  
        ^ (Gerken, p.&nbsp;500)  
        ^ 
          Vogel, Brenda (2009). The prison library primer: a program for the twenty-first century. Lanham, Md.: Scarecrow Press. p.&nbsp;5. ISBN&nbsp;9780810867437.  
        ^ 
          Charlie Savage (June 11, 2013). "Invisible Men". New York Times. Retrieved June 12, 2013.  
        ^ 
          "Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS) - Prisoners in 2016". www.bjs.gov. Retrieved 2018-04-02.  
        ^ McCook, K. (2004). Public Libraries and People in Jail. Reference and User Services Quarterly, 44(1), 26–30  
        ^ (Curry, Wolf, Boutilier, &amp; Chan, 2003, p.&nbsp;141)  
        ^ (Ings &amp; Joslin, p.&nbsp;389)  
        ^ a b c d (Ings &amp; Joslin, p.&nbsp;402)  
        ^ (Ings &amp; Joslin, p.&nbsp;403)  
        ^ (Ings &amp; Joslin, p.&nbsp;406)  
        ^ a b 
          "Chinese and western prisons--similarities and differences, Part 2. - Free Online Library". www.thefreelibrary.com. Retrieved 2020-07-19.  
        ^ (Bowe, 2011, p.&nbsp;429)  
        ^ (Bowe, p.&nbsp;430)  
        ^ a b (Bowe, p.&nbsp;431)  
        ^ (Bowe, p.&nbsp;433)  
        ^ (Bowe, p.&nbsp;434)  
        ^ (Cramard, 2011, p.&nbsp;544)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;545)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;551)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;553)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;555)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;556-7)  
        ^ (Cramard, p.&nbsp;558)  
        ^ a b c d e f (Peschers, 2011, p.&nbsp;521)  
        ^ a b (Peschers, p.&nbsp;522)  
        ^ (Peschers, p.&nbsp;523)  
        ^ (Peschers, p.&nbsp;539)  
        ^ (Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, 2011, p.&nbsp;510)  
        ^ a b (Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, p.&nbsp;510)  
        ^ (Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, p.&nbsp;512)  
        ^ (Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, p.&nbsp;514)  
        ^ (Costanzo &amp; Montecchi, p.&nbsp;513)  
        ^ (Nakane, 2011, p.&nbsp;446-7)  
        ^ a b (Nakane, p.&nbsp;447)  
        ^ (Nakane, p.&nbsp;448-9)  
        ^ a b (Nakane, p.&nbsp;449)  
        ^ (Nakane, p.&nbsp;453)  
        ^ (Zybert, 2011, p.&nbsp;410)  
        ^ (Zybert, p.&nbsp;412)  
        ^ (Zybert, p.&nbsp;413)  
        ^ (Zybert, p.&nbsp;417)  
        ^ (Zybert, p.&nbsp;424)  
        ^ (Pulido, 2011, p.&nbsp;461)  
        ^ (Pulido, p.&nbsp;461)  
        ^ a b (Pulido, p.&nbsp;462)  
        ^ (Pulido, p.&nbsp;468)  
        ^ 
          "Ex-Offender Services | Hartford Public Library". www.hplct.org. Retrieved 2020-07-19.  
        ^ 
          "Resources for Ex-Offenders". www.denverlibrary.org. Retrieved 2020-07-19.  
        ^ 
          "Prisoners' Right to Read | Intellectual Freedom Manual 8". web.archive.org. 2010-07-22. Retrieved 2021-08-01.  
        ^ 
          "Prison Libraries". American Library Association. Retrieved 8 April 2016.  
        ^ 
          AHILL (2015-01-21). "Library Services to the Incarcerated and Detained". Association of Specialized, Government &amp; Cooperative Library Agencies (ASGCLA). Retrieved 2020-07-19.  
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to Prison libraries.
         
       
       
      
       Prison Libraries, American Library Association 
       Guidelines for library services to prisoners, IFLA 
       Library Service to Prisoners, 1936-39
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Incarceration
           
         
         
          Science
          
            
            
             Criminology 
             Penology 
             Prison healthcare 
             Punishment 
             Stanford prison experiment
             
           
         
         
          Prisoners
          
            
            
             Criminal 
             Detainee 
             Hostage 
             Political prisoner 
             Prisoner of conscience 
             Prisoner of war 
             Slave
             
           
         
         
          Prisons
          
           
           
            
             
              Types
              
                
                
                 Black site 
                 Corrective labor colony 
                 Debtors' 
                 Extermination camp 
                 Farm 
                 Internment 
                 Island 
                 Labor camp 
                  
                   Battalion 
                   Chain gang
                   
                 Military 
                 Penal colony 
                 Prisoner-of-war camp 
                 Private  
                 Ship 
                 Youth detention center
                 
               
             
             
              Security levels
              
                
                
                 House arrest 
                 Administrative detention 
                 Open 
                 Maximum security 
                 Supermax 
                 Death row
                 
               
             
             
              Components
              
                
                
                 Cell 
                 Cemetery 
                 Commissary 
                 Food 
                 Library 
                 Nursery 
                 Officer 
                 Sally port 
                 Trusty system 
                 Warden
                 
               
             
             
              Escape
              
                
                
                 Prison escapes 
                  
                   Helicopter
                   
                 Prisoner-of-war escapes
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Culture
          
            
            
             Film 
             Gang  
              
               United States
               
             Literature 
              
               American 
               Blogs
               
             Ring 
             Slang 
             Tattooing
             
           
         
         
          Social issues
          
            
            
             Abuse  
              
               United States
               
             Contemplative programs 
             Education 
             Informants 
             LGBT 
             Mentally ill people in the United States 
             Mobile phones 
             Overcrowding 
             Pay-to-stay 
             Private prisons  
              
               United States
               
             Protective custody 
             Rape  
              
               United States
               
             Religion  
              
               United States
               
             Riots 
             Sexuality 
             Solitary confinement 
             Strikes 
             Suicide 
             Violence 
             Women in prison  
              
               United States
              
             
           
         
         
          Organizations
          
            
            
             Association for the Protection and Assistance of the Convicted (Brazil) 
             Black and Pink 
             Florida Justice Institute 
             International Network of Prison Ministries 
             Justice Action 
             Justice Defenders 
             Mount Tamalpais College 
             POA 
             Prison abolition movement 
             Prison Advice and Care Trust 
             Prison-Ashram Project 
             Prison Fellowship 
             Prison Fellowship International 
             Prison Legal News 
             Prison Officers' Association (Ireland) 
             The Prison Phoenix Trust 
             Prison Radio 
             Prison Reform Trust 
             WriteAPrisoner.com
             
           
         
         
          Leaving prison
          
            
            
             Rehabilitation 
             Work release
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Countries by incarceration rate 
             Prisons 
             Films featuring prisons
             
           
         
         
          By country
          
            
            
             Australia 
             Chile 
             China 
             Estonia 
             Germany 
             Iceland 
             India 
             Ireland, Republic of 
             Jamaica 
             Japan 
             New Zealand 
             North Korea 
             Norway 
             Peru 
             Russia 
             Soviet Union 
              
               Gulag
               
             Turkey 
             Ukraine 
             United Kingdom  
              
               Bermuda 
               England &amp; Wales 
               Northern Ireland 
               Scotland
               
             United States
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Imprisonment and detention 
              Commons
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prison_library&amp;oldid=1062386134"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Libraries by type
       Penal imprisonment
       Types of library
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 errors: generic name
       CS1 maint: url-status
       Articles with short description
       Short description is different from Wikidata
       Wikipedia articles with style issues from March 2012
       All articles with style issues
       All articles with unsourced statements
       Articles with unsourced statements from October 2020
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Deutsch
       Ελληνικά
       فارسی
       日本語
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 28 December 2021, at 04:25&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
