
 
  
   
  Map collection - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Map collection 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       Not to be confused with Atlas or Map series.
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Visscher, Cl.J., World Map. 1652., in Doncker, Hendrick, Sea Atlas (1659 ed.), from the map collection of the National Library of Australia.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Ferraris map of Brussels, Belgium, between 1771 and 1778, from the map collection of the Royal Library of Belgium.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Boston, Massachusetts in 1842, from the Perry–Castañeda Library Map Collection, at the University of Texas at Austin.
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Garnier, F. A., Turquie, Syrie, Liban, Caucase. 1862., from the David Rumsey Historical Map Collection.
        
       
       
      A map collection or map library is a storage facility for maps, usually in a library, archive, or museum, or at a map publisher or public-benefit corporation, and the maps and other cartographic items stored within that facility. 
      Sometimes, map collections are combined with graphic sheets, manuscripts and rare prints in a single department. In such cases, the expression "map collection" refers to the whole of the cartographic collection holdings.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History 
        2 Collection types and development 
        3 Documentation 
        4 Major map collections 
          
          4.1 Overview 
          4.2 Europe 
            
            4.2.1 Austria 
            4.2.2 Belgium 
            4.2.3 France 
            4.2.4 Germany 
            4.2.5 Spain 
            4.2.6 Switzerland 
            4.2.7 United Kingdom 
             
          4.3 North America 
            
            4.3.1 Canada 
            4.3.2 United States 
             
          4.4 Oceania 
            
            4.4.1 Australia 
             
           
        5 Challenges ahead 
        6 References 
          
          6.1 Notes 
          6.2 Further reading 
           
        7 External links 
        
       
      History 
      Even in medieval libraries, maps formed part of the inventories. According to scholars of the renaissance, maps were collected from the 15th century, either at the court or at naval academies to prepare for voyages of discovery. Over time, new techniques, such as copper engraving, reduced production costs, and assisted in spreading maps more widely. 
      By the 17th century, private map collections were often the basis for public map collections. As early as 1571, for example, the Court Library in Munich, Bavaria, (now the Bavarian State Library) became the owner of the Fugger collection. In 1823, the British Museum in London acquired the King's Library, which had been inherited and greatly enlarged by George III of the United Kingdom, and donated to the Museum by his heir, George IV of the United Kingdom. The King's Library included a collection of approximately 50,000 maps, plans and views, which are now housed at the British Library and known as the King's Topographical Collection. 
      In the development of public map collections, the geographical societies were important. They exerted great influence on the establishment and collection policy of such collections, or even stored their own collections at such institutions. So, for example, in 1680 Vincenzo Coronelli founded the Accademia Cosmographicae degli Argonauti, which existed until 1718. In Nuremberg, the Kosmographische Gesellschaft was established in 1740, while a namesake organization came into existence in Vienna in 1790. The Société de Géographie de Paris, founded in 1821, was the first modern geographic society. 
      Especially in the 19th century, many map collections were either newly established, or merged with existing collections of cartographic materials held by libraries under the responsibility of specialist librarians.  
      Collection types and development 
      
       In academic libraries, map collections usually have a stock of old maps and atlases. Often such libraries also acquire new copies of various official topographic map series, individual thematic maps, national atlases and thematic regional atlases. Academic library map collections usually also have cartographic literature. 
       National libraries collect all the maps that fall within their territory and are submitted by the publishing houses of that territory in compliance with applicable legal deposit laws. 
       General and regional libraries, depending upon their orientation, collect tourist maps and city maps, sometimes linked with travel guides. 
       Map publishers and map producing agencies (for example, Survey Offices) archive their own map production. These collections are in some cases not open to the public. 
       Private collections are often set up thematically or regionally, so that private map collectors not uncommonly develop into renowned experts, and authors of map bibliographies, in their specific collection area. 
       A collection of globes can be considered as a special type of map collection.
       
      Documentation 
      Newly published maps, like books, are recorded in national bibliographies. Thus, the title, author(s), imprint and ISBN of any recently published map are mentioned in official records. Additionally, various data specific to a map, such as scale, map projection, geographical coordinates and map format, are included in the records of that map. 
      Most academic map collection owners now index at least the most important parts of the collection in electronic catalogues that can be viewed online. 
      Older collections or private collections are often described in bibliophile catalogues. In such catalogues, at least representative parts of the collection are shown. Bibliophile catalogues provide evidence of the collection's stock that can be used in the event of theft. Also, the use of a collection's rarities can thereby be noticeably limited, as in many cases the image and scientific description of the map is sufficient for the required purpose, and thus the original map is left undisturbed. 
      Holdings in archives are often not indexed on a single sheet by sheet basis, but on a basis under which a sheet can be found in the records only with the assistance of a finding aid. Archive staff, often not trained in cartographic matters, can be cautious in describing an unwieldy, and in some ways reputedly "foreign" document type. For that reason, significant characteristics such as the projection and map scale of an individual sheet will often be omitted from an index to a map collection. These circumstances make it difficult for users of such indexes to search for a specific map in an archive, but still allow persistent researchers to make some 'discoveries'.  
      Major map collections 
      Overview 
      The authoritative guide World directory of map collections (2000) lists 714 map collections in 121 countries. With few exceptions, the most valuable map collections are held in either Europe or North America. There are also some map collections in South America, Africa and South Asia, but those collections are comparatively rare and of much lower value.  
      
       
        
         
         
          
           This list is incomplete; you can help by adding missing items. (February 2011)
          
        
       
       
      Europe 
      Austria 
      Indisputably the largest map collection in Austria is the Map Department of the Austrian National Library in Vienna. It has about 275,000 maps, 240,000 geographic-topographic views, 570 globes, 80 reliefs and models of fortresses, and about 75,000 volumes of technical literature and atlases, 
      Also a department of the Austrian National Library is the world's only public Globe Museum, at the Palais Mollard, Vienna.  
      Belgium 
      The Royal Library of Belgium in Brussels has a collection of over 200,000 maps, atlases, cartographic books and globes. Most of these items relate either to Belgium, or to its former colony the Democratic Republic of Congo.  
      France 
      The Département des cartes et plans of the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris ranks among the top three worldwide collections of cartographic materials. It holds stocks of atlases, maps, map series, globes, geography games, city maps, building plans and relief maps.  
      Germany 
      The largest map collections in Germany are those of the Berlin State Library, the Bavarian State Library in Munich and the Göttingen State and University Library. 
      Not currently publicly available is the collection of the publisher Justus Perthes in Gotha, which is owned by the state of Thuringia and presently housed at the University of Erfurt.  
      Spain 
      The National Library of Spain in Madrid has a collection of over 500,000 maps.  
      Switzerland 
      In Switzerland, there are major map collections in several libraries. The map collection in ETH Zurich's library is the largest, and specialises in thematic maps. The map collection of the Zentralbibliothek Zürich covers to a large extent the various official topographic map series and national atlases. 
      Located in Bern is the Ryhiner Collection, a former private collection of Johann Friedrich von Ryhiner with a focus on the 17th and 18th centuries.  
      United Kingdom 
      Major map collections are held at the British Library in London, the National Library of Scotland (available free online), the National Library of Wales and the Bodleian Library at the University of Oxford.  
      North America 
      Canada 
      Library and Archives Canada in Ottawa has a collection of some two million cartographic items.  
      United States 
      The world's largest collection of maps is held by the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. It includes around 5.2 million maps. 
      The Osher Map Library located on the University of Southern Maine's Portland Campus has a large collection of maps, atlases, and globes.  
      Oceania 
      Australia 
      The map collection of the National Library of Australia in Canberra includes over 600,000 maps and 2,500 atlases.  
      Challenges ahead 
      As with books in libraries, map collections now put more weight on creation of digital documents. These include maps and atlases on CD-ROM and DVD and in some cases the provision of Geodata. Such new forms of publication present map collections with major problems, as not just "mere" text and some inline images need to be kept, but very large amounts of data, up to several Gigabytes, that may eventually be required to operate specialised geographic information systems. 
      Also, the long-term storage of cartographic data is an unresolved issue that is particularly important for archives. 
      The digitization of analogue map stocks also offers the opportunity to link library catalogues directly with the images (or at least with so-called thumbnails). Also, digitally processed sheet indexes to individual sheets of map series allow for more targeted research from one's own workplace.   
      References 
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ a b "King George III Topographical and Maritime Collection". British Library website. British Library. Retrieved 5 October 2010.  
         ^ *
           Loiseaux, Olivier, ed. (2004). World directory of map collections (4th&nbsp;ed.). München: Saur. ISBN&nbsp;3-598-21818-4.  
         ^ 
           "Map Department". Austrian National Library website. Austrian National Library. Archived from the original on 26 November 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.  
         ^ 
           "Globe Museum". Austrian National Library website. Austrian National Library. Archived from the original on 4 September 2010. Retrieved 1 October 2010.  
         ^ 
           "National Library of Scotland: Maps". Retrieved 10 August 2018.  
         ^ 
           "ArchiviaNet: On-line Research Tool – Maps, Plans and Charts". Library and Archives Canada website. Library and Archives Canada. Archived from the original on 11 June 2013. Retrieved 1 October 2010.  
         ^ 
           "What we collect – Maps". National Library of Australia website. National Library of Australia. Retrieved 1 October 2010.  
        
       
       
      Further reading 
      
       
       
        
         Bühler, Jürg; Zögner, Lothar, eds. (2004). Die digitale Kartenbibliothek: eine Momentaufnahme  (in German). Vol.&nbsp;Supplement 1: Kartensammlung und Kartendokumentation . München: Saur. ISBN&nbsp;3-598-25000-2. 
        
         Zeilinger, Elisabeth (1986). "Kartensammlung" . In Kretschmer, Ingrid; et&nbsp;al. (eds.). Lexikon zur Geschichte der Kartographie. Von den Anfängen bis zum Ersten Weltkrieg  (in German). Vol.&nbsp;C (Die Kartographie und ihre Randgebiete) . Wien: Deuticke. ISBN&nbsp;3-7005-4562-2.
        
       
      External links 
      
       Links with commentary, sorted thematically 
       Wikiversity:Kartensammlung   (in German)
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Map_collection&amp;oldid=1066378165"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Archival science
       Library resources
       Map collections
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Use dmy dates from September 2021
       Articles using small message boxes
       Incomplete lists from February 2011
       CS1: long volume value
       CS1 German-language sources (de)
       Articles with German-language sources (de)
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Русский
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 18 January 2022, at 03:13&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
