
 
  
   
  Virtual school libraries in the United States - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Virtual school libraries in the United States 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      A virtual school library is a PreK-12 library that is a subunit of a virtual school—using the same telecommunications network to provide equitable access to electronic resources and communication designed to support the school's curriculum. 
      According to Watson and Ryan, PreK-12 virtual school enrollments in the United States were growing at a rate of 50% annually in 2007. 
      Additionally, Darrow cites the development of virtual spaces, which have been developed in the traditional school library across the United States, as the models for the newly developed virtual school library concept. He identifies how such existing sites as "Kathy Scrhock's Guide for educators", the Springfield Township High School Virtual Library, and the Wissahickon High School Virtual Library which have been modeled to create PreK-12 virtual school libraries such as the Florida Virtual School Virtual Library. Other similar libraries include Stephanie Bucalo's "Virtual School Library", designed to address general literacy and inquiry-based learning by highlighting books, information sources (search engines, etc.) and information/evaluation best practices and strategies and Linda Bertland's "Virtual Middle School Library", a collection of online resources, book reviews, parent/teacher resources and teacher-librarian information targeted specifically to the U.S. middle school population. 
      Furthermore, Darrow also cites the need to have licensed teacher-librarians involved at several levels—instruction, inquiry, and curriculum development—in order to effectively utilize the wealth of resources (and their associated processes) available to virtual education students. According to Darrow, if a virtual school library is void of such "customization and personalization" as well as other degrees of human intervention, the resources may prove to be under-utilized or not used at all. 
      One of the key components in the virtual school library is the development of virtual school library communication portals where students may interact with teacher-librarians and other educators—sharing student/educator-generated book reviews, student/educator-produced videos, participate in online polls, and/or attend online reference service podcasts designed to teach students how to use a particular library database or tool. Loertscher confirms Darrow's assumptions and describes a process that goes beyond merely integrating online tools on a website. He describes the idea and functionality of a "virtual school library commons" during a Second Life presentation where he created an iGoogle page and an accompanying blog to facilitate the delivery of RRS (i.e. z/OS)-based library services to students and fellow educators.  
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ Watson, J. F.; Ryan, J. (2007). "Keeping pace with K-12 online learning" (PDF). Inacol.org. Retrieved June 21, 2009.  
         ^ 
           "Kathy Schrock's Guide for Educators - Home Page - Kathy Schrock's Guide for Educators". School.discoveryeducation.com. 2012-08-07. Retrieved 2016-07-21.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2009-06-19. Retrieved 2009-06-22.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2008-09-17. Retrieved 2009-06-22.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Online High, Middle, &amp; Elementary Public School Serving Grades K-12". FLVS.net. Retrieved 2016-07-21.  
         ^ Darrow, R. 2009. "School libraries are essential: meeting the virtual access and collaboration needs of the 21st-century learner and teacher". In "Knowledge Quest" 37 5 (May/June 2009) 78-83.  
         ^ 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-07-28. Retrieved 2009-09-22.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ 
           "Virtual Middle School Library". Sldirectory.com. 2016-07-07. Retrieved 2016-07-21.  
         ^ Ibid., 81.  
         ^ 
           Loertcher, D. (2008). "How can librarians get back in the information game? New directions in schools and academic libraries" (PDF). Second Life. Retrieved June 22, 2009.  
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Virtual_school_libraries_in_the_United_States&amp;oldid=1001707529"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Online schools in the United States
       Virtual learning environments
       American digital libraries
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
       
      
       Add links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 20 January 2021, at 23:12&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
