
 
  
   
  Presidential library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   Presidential library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       For other uses, see Presidential library (disambiguation).
       
      
       Research library with the collection of a U.S. president's papers
       
        
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Official seal of the presidential libraries
        
       
       
      In the United States, the presidential library system is a nationwide network of 13 libraries (with a fourteenth in progress) administered by the Office of Presidential Libraries, which is part of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). These are repositories for preserving and making available the papers, records, collections and other historical materials of every president of the United States from Herbert Hoover (31st president, 1929–1933) to George W. Bush (43rd president, 2001–2009). In addition to the library services, museum exhibitions concerning the presidency are displayed. 
      Although recognized as having historical significance, before the mid-20th century presidential papers and effects were generally understood to be the private property of the president. Franklin D. Roosevelt (32nd president, 1933–1945) proposed to leave his papers to the public in a building donated by him on his Hyde Park estate. Since then a series of laws established the public keeping of documents and the presidential library system. While not officially sanctioned and maintained by NARA, libraries have also been organized for several presidents who preceded Hoover and the official start of the Presidential Library Office. 
      The library sites are sometimes referred to as presidential centers. The Barack Obama Presidential Center (44th president, 2009–2017) will operate under a new model, whereby the Barack Obama Presidential Library is fully digitized, preserved, and administered by NARA with archival materials lent to the privately operated Presidential Center for display.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 Overview 
          
          1.1 Presidential libraries outside NARA 
           
        2 History 
          
          2.1 National Archives 
          2.2 Presidential Libraries Act of 1955 
          2.3 Presidential Records Act of 1978 
          2.4 Presidential Libraries Act of 1986 
          2.5 Presidential Historical Records Preservation Act of 2008 
           
        3 Holdings 
        4 List of presidential libraries 
        5 Locations of other presidents' papers 
        6 See also 
        7 Notes 
        8 References 
        
       
      Overview 
      
      
       
        
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Washington
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Adams
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Jefferson
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Monroe
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Jackson
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Lincoln
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            A. Johnson
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Grant
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Hayes
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Madison
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Harrison
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            McKinley
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Wilson
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Polk
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Coolidge
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Hoover
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            F.D. Roosevelt
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Truman
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Eisenhower
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Kennedy
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            L.B. Johnson
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Nixon
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Ford (Museum)
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Ford (Library)
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Carter
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Reagan
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            G.H.W. Bush
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Clinton
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            G.W. Bush
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            
             Obama
            
           
          
         
         
          
           
          
          
           
            Theodore Roosevelt
           
          
         
        
        
         
           
         Locations of the NARA-administered (red) and other (blue) U.S. presidential libraries
        
       
       
      For every president since Herbert Hoover, presidential libraries have been established in each president's home state in which documents, artifacts, gifts of state and museum exhibits are maintained that relate to the former president's life and career both political and professional. Each library also provides an active series of public programs. When a president leaves office, the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) establishes a presidential materials project to house and index the documents until a new presidential library is built and transferred to the federal government. 
      The first presidential library is the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, dedicated on June 30, 1941. The George W. Bush Presidential Center became the thirteenth on May 1, 2013.  
      Presidential libraries outside NARA 
      The presidential library system is made up of thirteen presidential libraries operated by the NARA. Libraries and museums have been established for earlier presidents, but they are not part of the NARA presidential library system, and are operated by private foundations, historical societies, or state governments, including the James K. Polk, William McKinley, Rutherford Hayes, Calvin Coolidge, Abraham Lincoln and Woodrow Wilson libraries. For example, the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum is owned and operated by the state of Illinois. 
      The Richard Nixon Library and Birthplace was not originally part of the presidential library system. While the Nixon Presidential Materials Staff, which administers the Nixon presidential materials under the terms of the Presidential Recordings and Materials Preservation Act, is part of NARA, a private foundation operated the Richard Nixon Library &amp; Birthplace. In January 2004, Congress passed legislation that provided for the establishment of a federally operated Richard Nixon Presidential Library in Yorba Linda. In March 2005, the Archivist of the United States and John Taylor, the director of the Richard Nixon Library &amp; Birthplace Foundation, exchanged letters on the requirements to allow the Nixon Library to become the twelfth federally funded presidential library operated by the NARA by 2007. On October 16, 2006, Dr. Timothy Naftali began his tenure as the first federal director of the Richard Nixon Library and Birthplace, and in the winter of 2006 NARA began to transfer the 30,000 presidential gifts from the Nixon Presidential Materials Staff in College Park, Maryland to the facility. On July 11, 2007, the Nixon Foundation deeded the Library and Birthplace to the government of the United States. On the same day, the newly renamed federal Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum officially opened. 
      In May 2012, on the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Ulysses S. Grant Foundation, it selected Mississippi State University as the permanent location for Ulysses S. Grant's presidential library. Historian John Simon edited Grant's letters into a 32-volume scholarly edition published by Southern Illinois University Press. 
      On April 30, 2013, both chambers of the North Dakota Legislative Assembly passed a bill appropriating $12 million to Dickinson State University to award a grant to the Theodore Roosevelt Center for construction of a building to be named the Theodore Roosevelt Presidential Library. To access these funds, the Theodore Roosevelt Center must first raise $3 million from non-state sources. Dickinson State University is also home to the Theodore Roosevelt Digital Library which has formed partnerships with the Library of Congress and Harvard University, among other institutions. They currently have over 25,000 items online. 
      On April 12, 2016, Harding 2020, a collaboration between the Harding Home, Ohio History Connection, and Marion Technical College, detailed plans to spend $7.3 million to establish the Warren G. Harding Presidential Center. Plans include restoring the Harding Home, Warren G. Harding's historic home in Marion, Ohio, and its grounds to its 1920 appearance. A 15,000-square-foot presidential center and museum will also be built adjacent to the house. Harding's presidential papers will then be moved from its current location at the Ohio History Connection's headquarters in Columbus, Ohio to the new center. The culmination of the work, scheduled to be completed by the spring of 2020, is to coincide with the 100th anniversary of Harding's election to the presidency. 
      In May 2017, it was announced that the Barack Obama Presidential Center, the planned location of the presidential library of Barack Obama, would not be part of the NARA system, making Obama the first president since Calvin Coolidge not to have a federally funded facility. Instead, in a "new model" the nonprofit Obama Foundation will partner with the NARA on digitization and making documents available. The Chicago Park District began related construction in August and suspended it in September 2018. It was announced that the city of Chicago would own the Center.  
      History 
      Historically, all presidential papers were considered the personal property of the president. Some took them at the end of their terms, others destroyed them, and many papers were scattered. Though many pre-Hoover collections now reside in the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress, others are split among other libraries, historical societies, and private collections. However, many materials have been lost or deliberately destroyed. 
      Lucretia Rudolph Garfield, the wife of James A. Garfield (president from March 4, 1881, until his death on September 19, 1881) added a Memorial Library wing to their family home in Mentor, Ohio, four years after his assassination. The James A. Garfield National Historic Site is operated by the National Park Service and the Western Reserve Historical Society.  
      National Archives 
      In 1939, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt donated his personal and presidential papers to the federal government. At the same time, Roosevelt pledged part of his estate at Hyde Park, New York to the United States, and friends of the president formed a non-profit corporation to raise funds for the construction of the library and museum building. Roosevelt's decision stemmed from his belief that presidential papers were an important part of the national heritage and should be accessible to the public. He asked the National Archives to take custody of his papers and other historical materials and to administer his library. On June 30, 2013, new interactive and multimedia exhibits developed by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) opened to the public as part of the first renovation of this library since its opening. 
      In 1950, Harry S. Truman decided that he, too, would build a library to house his presidential papers and helped to galvanize congressional action.  
      Presidential Libraries Act of 1955 
      In 1955, Congress passed the Presidential Libraries Act of 1955, establishing a system of privately erected and federally maintained libraries. The Act encouraged other presidents to donate their historical materials to the government and ensured the preservation of presidential papers and their availability to the people of the United States. Under this and subsequent acts, nine more libraries have been established. In each case, private and non-federal public sources provided the funds to build the library. Once completed, the private organization turned over the libraries to the National Archives and Records Administration to operate and maintain. 
      Until 1978, presidents, scholars, and legal professionals held the view dating back to George Washington that the records created by the president or his staff while in office remained the personal property of the president and were his to take with him when he left office. The first presidential libraries were built on this concept. NARA successfully persuaded presidents to donate their historical materials to the federal government for housing in a presidential library managed by NARA.  
      Presidential Records Act of 1978 
      The Presidential Records Act of 1978 established that the presidential records that document the constitutional, statutory, and ceremonial duties of the president are the property of the United States Government. After the president leaves office, the Archivist of the United States assumes custody of the records. The Act allowed for the continuation of presidential libraries as the repository for presidential records.  
      Presidential Libraries Act of 1986 
      The Presidential Libraries Act of 1986 made additional changes to presidential libraries, requiring private endowments linked to the size of the facility. NARA uses these endowments to offset a portion of the maintenance costs for the library.  
      Presidential Historical Records Preservation Act of 2008 
      The Presidential Historical Records Preservation Act of 2008 amended 44&nbsp;U.S.C.&nbsp;§&nbsp;2504 to authorize grants for Presidential Centers of Historical Excellence.  
      Holdings 
      The thirteen presidential libraries maintain over 400 million pages of textual materials; nearly ten million photographs; over 15 million feet (5,000&nbsp;km) of motion picture film; nearly 100,000 hours of disc, audiotape, and videotape recordings; and approximately half a million museum objects. These varied holdings make each library a valuable source of information and a center for research on the Presidency. 
      The most important textual materials in each library are those created by the president and his staff in the course of performing the official duties. Libraries also house numerous objects including family heirlooms, items collected by the president and his family, campaign memorabilia, awards, and the many gifts given to the president by American citizens and foreign dignitaries. These gifts range in type from homemade items to valuable works of art. Curators in presidential libraries and in other museums throughout the country draw upon these collections for historical exhibits. 
      Other significant holdings include the personal papers and historical materials donated by individuals associated with the president. These individuals may include Cabinet officials, envoys to foreign governments, political party associates, and the president's family and personal friends. Several libraries have undertaken oral history programs that have produced tape-recorded memoirs. A third body of materials comprises the papers accumulated by the president prior to, and following, his Presidency. Such collections include documents relating to Theodore Roosevelt's tenure as Governor of New York and Dwight D. Eisenhower's long military career. 
      With the exception of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and (upon his own death) Jimmy Carter, every American president since Hoover is or has chosen to be buried at their presidential library. Kennedy is buried at Arlington National Cemetery; Johnson is buried at his ranch in the hill country of Texas, west of Austin; Carter plans to be buried near his home in Plains, Georgia. Bill Clinton will be buried at the William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Center in Little Rock. George W. Bush will be buried at the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas. The future burial sites of 44th president Barack Obama, 45th president Donald Trump, and 46th president Joe Biden are still unknown. 
      Unlike all other presidents whose libraries are part of the NARA system, Ford's library and museum are geographically separate buildings, located in different parts of Michigan; Ford is buried at his museum in Grand Rapids, while the library is in Ann Arbor.  
      List of presidential libraries
       This is a list of the presidential libraries. 
      
       &nbsp;&nbsp;Denotes libraries outside the NARA Presidential Library Office (only one administration post Hoover operates outside of NARA).
       
      
      
       &nbsp;&nbsp;Denotes presidential sites without libraries.
       
      
      
       &nbsp;&nbsp;Denotes library without presidential site.
       
       
       
         
         #  
         President  
         Library name  
         Location  
         Operated by  
         Image  
         Logo/website 
         
         
         1  
         George Washington  
         Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington at Mount VernonOpened to public September 27, 2013  
         Mount Vernon, Virginia  
         Mount Vernon Ladies' Association  
           
         website 
         
         
         2  
         John Adams  
         Stone Library at Adams National Historical ParkOpened to public 1870  
         Quincy, Massachusetts  
         National Park Service (NPS)  
           
         website 
         
         
         3  
         Thomas Jefferson  
         Robert H. Smith International Center for Jefferson Studies at MonticelloOpened to public 1994  
         Charlottesville, Virginia  
         Thomas Jefferson Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         4  
         James Madison  
         The Papers of James Madison at Alderman LibraryOpened in 1937, the Papers of James Madison went digital, 28 April 2010.  
         Charlottesville, Virginia  
         University of Virginia  
           
         Montpelier 
         
         
         4  
         MontpelierOpened to public 1984  
         Montpelier Station, Virginia  
         National Trust for Historic Preservation  
           
         Montpelier 
         
         
         James Madison MuseumOpened to public 2013  
         Orange, Virginia  
         James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation  
           
         museum 
         
         
         5  
         James Monroe  
         James Monroe Museum and Memorial LibraryOpened to public 1966  
         Fredericksburg, Virginia  
         University of Mary Washington  
           
         website 
         
         
         5  
         HighlandOpened to public 1931  
         Simeon, Virginia  
         College of William and Mary  
           
         website 
         
         
         6  
         John Quincy Adams  
         Stone Library at Adams National Historical ParkOpened to public 1870  
         Quincy, Massachusetts  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         7  
         Andrew Jackson  
         The Papers of Andrew Jackson at Hoskins LibraryOpened to public 1987  
         Knoxville, Tennessee  
         University of Tennessee at Knoxville  
           
         website 
         
         
         7  
         The HermitageOpened to public 1894  
         Nashville, Tennessee  
         Andrew Jackson Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         8  
         Martin Van Buren  
         Martin Van Buren National Historic SiteOpened to public October 26, 1974  
         Kinderhook, New York  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         9  
         William Henry Harrison  
         Berkeley PlantationOpened to public 1940s  
         Charles City, Virginia  
         Berkeley Plantation  
           
         website 
         
         
         10  
         John Tyler  
         Sherwood Forest PlantationOpened to public 1970s  
         Charles City, Virginia  
         Sherwood Forest Plantation Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         11  
         James K. Polk  
         President James K. Polk Home &amp; MuseumOpened to public 1929  
         Columbia, Tennessee  
         James K. Polk Memorial Association  
           
         website 
         
         
         12  
         Zachary Taylor  
         Zachary Taylor National CemeteryOpened to public 1928  
         Louisville, Kentucky  
         National Cemetery Administration  
           
         website 
         
         
         13  
         Millard Fillmore  
         Millard Fillmore HouseOpened to public 1975  
         East Aurora, New York  
         Aurora Historical Society  
           
         website 
         
         
         14  
         Franklin Pierce  
         Franklin Pierce HomesteadOpened to public 1920s  
         Hillsborough, New Hampshire  
         State of New Hampshire  
           
         website 
         
         
         15  
         James Buchanan  
         James Buchanan papers at the Historical Society of PennsylvaniaGift of the Buchanan family; transferred to the Historical Society, c. 1895–1897  
         Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  
         Historical Society of Pennsylvania  
           
         website 
         
         
         15  
         Wheatland (James Buchanan House)Opened to public 1930s  
         Lancaster, Pennsylvania  
         James Buchanan Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         16  
         Abraham Lincoln  
         Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and MuseumOpened to public in 2004  
         Springfield, Illinois  
         State of Illinois  
           
         website 
         
         
         17  
         Andrew Johnson  
         President Andrew Johnson Museum and LibraryOpened to public 1993  
         Tusculum, Tennessee  
         Tusculum College  
           
         website 
         
         
         17  
         Andrew Johnson National Historic SiteOpened to public 1993  
         Greeneville, Tennessee  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         18  
         Ulysses S. Grant  
         Ulysses S. Grant Presidential LibraryOpened to public October 15, 1966  
         Starkville, Mississippi  
         Mississippi State University LibraryandUlysses S. Grant Association  
           
         website 
         
         
         18  
         Ulysses S. Grant National Historic SiteOpened to public 1989  
         Grantwood Village, Missouri  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         19  
         Rutherford B. Hayes  
         Rutherford B. Hayes Presidential CenterOpened to public 1916  
         Fremont, Ohio  
         Ohio Historical SocietyandHayes Presidential Center, Inc.  
           
         website 
         
         
         20  
         James A. Garfield  
         James A. Garfield National Historic SiteOpened to public 1998  
         Mentor, Ohio  
         NPSandWestern Reserve Historical Society  
           
         website 
         
         
         21  
         Chester A. Arthur  
         Chester Alan Arthur State Historic SiteOpened to public 1950s  
         Fairfield, Vermont  
         Vermont Agency of Commerce and Community Development  
           
         website 
         
         
         22 and 24  
         Grover Cleveland  
         Grover Cleveland BirthplaceOpened to public March 18, 1913  
         Caldwell, New Jersey  
         New Jersey Division of Parks and Forestry and Grover Cleveland Birthplace Memorial Association  
           
         website 
         
         
         22 and 24  
         Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript LibraryOpened to public October 16, 1976  
         Princeton, New Jersey  
         Princeton University  
           
         website 
         
         
         23  
         Benjamin Harrison  
         Benjamin Harrison Presidential SiteOpened to public 1970s  
         Indianapolis, Indiana  
         Arthur Jordan Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         25  
         William McKinley  
         William McKinley Presidential Library and MuseumMemorial/Gravesite opened to the public September 1907  
         Canton, Ohio  
         Stark County Historical Society  
           
         website 
         
         
         26  
         Theodore Roosevelt  
         Houghton Library Collection donated in 1943  
         Cambridge, Massachusetts  
         Harvard University  
           
         website 
         
         
         26  
         The Theodore Roosevelt Center at Dickinson State UniversityLaunched in 2009  
         Dickinson, ND  
         Dickinson State University  
           
         website 
         
         
         26  
         Theodore Roosevelt Birthplace National Historic SiteOpened to public 1923  
         Manhattan, New York City, New York  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         27  
         William Howard Taft  
         William Howard Taft National Historic SiteOpened to public 1970s  
         Cincinnati, Ohio  
         NPS  
           
         website 
         
         
         28  
         Woodrow Wilson  
         Woodrow Wilson Presidential LibraryOpened to the public in 1990  
         Staunton, Virginia  
         Woodrow Wilson Presidential Library Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         28  
         Woodrow Wilson CenterChartered by Congress in 1968  
         Washington, DC  
         Woodrow Wilson Presidential Library Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         28  
         Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript LibraryOpened to public October 16, 1976  
         Princeton, New Jersey  
         Princeton University  
           
         website 
         
         
         29  
         Warren G. Harding  
         Warren G. Harding Home &amp; MemorialOpened to the public in February 1926  
         Marion, Ohio  
         Ohio History Connection  
           
         website 
         
         
         29  
         Warren G. Harding Presidential CenterOpened to the public on May 12, 2021  
         Ohio History Connection  
           
         website 
         
         
         30  
         Calvin Coolidge  
         Calvin Coolidge Presidential Library and MuseumOpened to the public in 1956  
         Northampton, Massachusetts  
         Forbes Library  
           
         website 
         
         
         30  
         President Calvin Coolidge State Historical SiteOpened to the public in 1957  
         Plymouth Notch, Vermont  
         State of Vermont  
           
         website 
         
         
         31  
         Herbert Hoover  
         Herbert Hoover Presidential Library and MuseumDedication August 10, 1962 Rededicated August 8, 1992  
         West Branch, Iowa  
         National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)  
           
         website 
         
         
         32  
         Franklin D. Roosevelt  
         Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and MuseumDedicated June 30, 1941 Rededicated June 30, 2013  
         Hyde Park, New York  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         33  
         Harry S. Truman  
         Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and MuseumDedicated on July 6, 1957  Rededicated December 9, 2001  
         Independence, Missouri  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         34  
         Dwight D. Eisenhower  
         Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library, Museum and Boyhood HomeDedicated on May 1, 1962Rededicated on October 7, 2019  
         Abilene, Kansas  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         35  
         John F. Kennedy  
         John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and MuseumDedicated on October 20, 1979  Rededicated October 29, 1993  
         Boston, Massachusetts  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         36  
         Lyndon B. Johnson  
         Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and MuseumDedicated on May 22, 1971  
         Austin, Texas  
         NARAandThe University of Texas at Austin  
           
         website 
         
         
         37  
         Richard Nixon  
         Richard Nixon Presidential Library and MuseumDedicated on July 19, 1990  Rededicated October 14, 2016  
         Yorba Linda, California 
         NARA and Richard Nixon Foundation  
           
         website 
         
         
         38  
         Gerald Ford  
         Gerald R. Ford Presidential MuseumDedicated on September 18, 1981  Rededicated April 17, 1997  
         Grand Rapids, Michigan  
         NARA  
           
         &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; website 
         
         
         Gerald R. Ford Presidential LibraryDedicated on April 27, 1981  
         Ann Arbor, Michigan  
          
         
         
         39  
         Jimmy Carter  
         Jimmy Carter Library and MuseumDedicated on October 1, 1986  
         Atlanta, Georgia  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         40  
         Ronald Reagan  
         Ronald Reagan Presidential LibraryDedicated on November 4, 1991  
         Simi Valley, California  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         41  
         George H. W. Bush  
         George H.W. Bush Presidential Library and MuseumDedicated on November 6, 1997  
         College Station, Texas  
         NARAandTexas A&amp;M University  
           
         website 
         
         
         42  
         Bill Clinton  
         William J. Clinton Presidential Center and ParkDedicated on November 18, 2004  
         Little Rock, Arkansas  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         43  
         George W. Bush  
         George W. Bush Presidential CenterDedicated on April 25, 2013  
         Dallas, Texas  
         NARAandSouthern Methodist University  
           
         website 
         
         
         44  
         Barack Obama  
         Barack Obama Presidential Library  
         Digital only  
         NARA  
           
         website 
         
         
         44  
         Barack Obama Presidential CenterScheduled to open in the early 2020s  
         Chicago, Illinois  
         Obama Foundation and the University of Chicago  
           
         website 
         
         
         45  
         Donald Trump  
         Donald J. Trump Presidential LibraryEarly planning, no opening scheduled so far.  
         Florida  
         NARA  
           
         website 
        
       
       
      Locations of other presidents' papers 
      Grover Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson left their papers to Princeton University where they may be found at the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library. The Theodore Roosevelt Association collected Theodore Roosevelt's papers and donated them to Harvard University in 1943, where they reside at its Widener and Houghton libraries. 
      James Buchanan left his papers to the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, where they may still be found. The Papers of Andrew Jackson is a project sponsored by the University of Tennessee at Knoxville to collect Andrew Jackson's papers on microfilm. A microfilm edition of Martin Van Buren's papers was produced at Pennsylvania State University in 1987; a digital edition of the Papers of Martin Van Buren is being produced at Cumberland University. A similar project is underway on behalf of James Madison by the Universities of Virginia and Chicago. 
      For many presidents, especially before the development of the NARA system, substantial collections may be found in multiple private and public collections. Until the Obama Administration's library is ready for service, its papers are being held in a facility in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, and are not available to the public as they are classified.  
      See also 
      
       United States presidential memorials 
       National Archives facilities §&nbsp;Presidential libraries 
       First Ladies National Historic Site 
       Jefferson Davis Presidential Library and Museum 
       Gladstone's Library 
       Churchill Archives Centre 
       National Churchill Museum 
       Vicente Fox Center of Studies, Library and Museum 
       Quayle Vice Presidential Learning Center 
       Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library 
       World's Smallest Presidential Library (David Rice Atchison)
       
      Notes 
      
       
       
         
         ^ NARA and the Obama Foundation are partnering in a new model, digitizing the Obama presidential records but not creating a new NARA facility.  
        
       
       
      References 
      
       
       
         
         ^ "Information About New Model for Obama Presidential Library". National Archives. February 25, 2019. Retrieved July 25, 2021.  
         ^ 
           Clark, Anthony (May 7, 2017). "Presidential Libraries Are a Scam. Could Obama Change That?". Politico Magazine. Retrieved May 25, 2017.  
         ^ 
           "Nixon Library Updates". Nixon Presidential Library and Museum. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "National Archives Names Director of the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum" (Press release). National Archives and Records Administration. July 11, 2007. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "The National Archives Opens Federal Nixon Library, Releases Previously-Restricted Documents and Tapes" (Press release). National Archives and Records Administration. July 11, 2007. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "MSU joins exclusive list as presidential library host" (Press release). Mississippi State University. May 17, 2012. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Collection Overview". Ulysses S. Grant Association. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           "Legislative Assembly awards funding for creation of TR Library" (Press release). Theodore Roosevelt Center. May 2, 2013. Archived from the original on October 7, 2013. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ a b 
           "7.3M Harding Presidential Center opens in 2020". The Marion Star. April 12, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Caputo, Blair Kamin, Katherine Skiba, Angela. "Obama Presidential Center breaks from National Archives model". chicagotribune.com. Retrieved April 11, 2018.  
         ^ 
           "National Archives Announces a New Model for the Preservation and Accessibility of Presidential Records". National Archives. May 3, 2017. Retrieved September 21, 2018.  
         ^ 
           Bowean, Lolly (September 18, 2018). "New legislation outlines terms of Obama center's use of Jackson Park". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved September 20, 2018.  
         ^ 
           Blakley, Derrick (September 18, 2018). "City Breaks Promises Regarding Jackson Park, Obama Presidential Center". CBS Chicago. Retrieved September 20, 2018.  
         ^ a b 
           Gunther, John (1950). Roosevelt in Retrospect. Harper &amp; Brothers. pp.&nbsp;99–100.  
         ^ 
           "Presidential Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress". Library of Congress. Retrieved January 2, 2012.  
         ^ 
           "History Associates Assists With Content Development for New Exhibit at Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum" (Press release). History Associates. September 27, 2013. Retrieved May 30, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Presidential Libraries Act of 1955". National Archives. August 15, 2016.  
         ^ 
           "Presidential Libraries Act of 1986". National Archives. August 15, 2016.  
         ^ 
           Minor, Elliot (January 10, 2007). "Carter's Hometown Happy with Burial Plan". The Washington Post. Associated Press. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           O'Brien, Caitlin (April 14, 2011). "Mount Vernon Getting New Library". WRC-TV News. Retrieved September 1, 2014.  
         ^ 
           "Museum History". Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. Archived from the original on August 7, 2017. Retrieved March 5, 2019.  
         ^ 
           Lutz, BJ (April 30, 2015). "Chicago to Get Obama Presidential Library". WMAQ-TV News. Retrieved September 1, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Clark, Anthony (January 8, 2017). "Obama Foundation Changes Presidential Libraries – Perhaps Forever". medium.com. Retrieved June 3, 2017. t seems quite certain that the Obama Foundation anticipates keeping and operating both the foundation space as well as the museum on its own ...  
         ^ Julie Bosman &amp; Mitch Smith, Chicago Wins Bid to Host Obama Library, New York Times, May 12, 2015.  
         ^ 
           Rucker, Philip; Dawsey, Josh; Parker, Ashley (January 16, 2021). "Trump to flee Washington and seek rehabilitation in a MAGA oasis: Florida". The Washington Post.  
         ^ 
           "TR Center – Harvard College Library". www.theodorerooseveltcenter.org. Retrieved January 23, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "About the Project | The Papers of Andrew Jackson". Retrieved January 23, 2021.  
         ^ 
           "Papers of Martin Van Buren". Retrieved October 7, 2020.  
         ^ Montgomery, Bruce P. “Presidential Materials: Politics and the Presidential Records Act.” The American Archivist, vol. 66, no. 1, 2003, pp. 102–138.  
        
       
       
      
       Portions of this article based on public domain text from the National Archives and Records Administration
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            United States presidential libraries
           
         
         
          Non-NARA libraries
          
            
            
             Washington 
             J. and J. Q. Adams 
             Lincoln 
             A. Johnson 
             Hayes 
             McKinley 
             T. Roosevelt (planned) 
             Wilson 
             Coolidge 
             Obama (planned) 
             Trump (potential)
             
           
         
         
          National Archives and RecordsAdministration libraries
          
            
            
             Hoover 
             F. D. Roosevelt 
             Truman 
             Eisenhower 
             Kennedy 
             L. B. Johnson 
             Nixon 
             Ford (L) 
              
               M
               
             Carter 
             Reagan 
             G. H. W. Bush 
             Clinton 
             G. W. Bush
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Lists related to the presidents and vice presidents of the United States
           
         
         
          
            
            
             List of presidents 
             List of vice presidents
             
           
         
         
          Presidents
          
            
            
             Age 
             Autobiographies 
             Burial places 
             Death 
             Historical rankings 
             Official vehicles 
             Portraits 
             Time in office
             
           
         
         
          Professionalcareers
          
            
            
             Approval rating 
             Assassination attempts and plots 
             Campaign slogans 
             Control of Congress 
             Doctrines 
             Inaugurations 
             International trips 
             Judicial appointments 
             Libraries 
             Military rank 
             Military service 
             Other offices held 
             Pardons 
             Post-presidency campaigns 
             Previous experience 
             Vetoes
             
           
         
         
          Personal life
          
            
            
             Ancestry 
             Coats of arms 
             Deaths in office 
             Education 
             Facial hair 
             Firsts 
             Freemasons 
             Home state 
             Multilingualism 
             Net worth 
             Nicknames 
             Pets 
             Religious affiliation 
             Residences 
             Slave owners
             
           
         
         
          Vice presidents
          
            
            
             Age 
             Burial places 
             Coats of arms 
             Education 
             Home state 
             Other offices held 
             Ran for president 
             Religious affiliation 
             Slave owners 
             Tie-breaking votes 
             Time in office
             
           
         
         
          Succession
          
            
            
             Acting president 
             Designated survivor 
             Line of succession
             
           
         
         
          Elections
          
            
            
             Electoral College margin 
             Popular vote margin 
             Winner lost popular vote
             
           
         
         
          Candidates
          
           
           
            
             
              Political affiliation
              
                
                
                 Democratic 
                 Democratic-Republican 
                 Federalist 
                 Green 
                 Libertarian 
                 National Republican&nbsp;/ Whig 
                 Republican 
                 Third party&nbsp;/ Independent
                 
               
             
             
              Distinctions
              
                
                
                 African American 
                 Female 
                 Received at least one electoral vote 
                 Number of votes received 
                 Height 
                 Unsuccessful major party presidential candidates 
                 Unsuccessful major party vice presidential candidates 
                 Lost their home state 
                 Firsts
                 
               
             
            
           
           
         
         
          Families
          
            
            
             First families 
             First ladies 
             Presidential children 
             Second ladies and gentlemen 
             Vice presidential children
             
           
         
         
          Namesakesand honors
          
            
            
             Memorial sites 
             U.S. postage stamp appearances 
             Educational institution names 
             Currency appearances 
             Statues 
             U.S. county names 
             U.S. Senate vice presidential bust collection
             
           
         
         
          In media
          
            
            
             Portrayals 
             Fictional depictions 
              
               Line of succession
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              United States portal 
              Politics portal 
              Biography portal
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Memorials to, and namesakes of, presidents of the United States
           
         
         
          By president
          
            
            
             1 Washington 
             2 J. Adams 
             3 Jefferson 
             4 Madison 
             5 Monroe 
             6 J. Q. Adams 
             7 Jackson 
             8 Van Buren 
             9 W. H. Harrison 
             10 Tyler 
             11 Polk 
             12 Taylor 
             13 Fillmore 
             14 Pierce 
             15 Buchanan 
             16 Lincoln 
             17 A. Johnson 
             18 Grant 
             19 Hayes 
             20 Garfield 
             21 Arthur 
             22 and 24 Cleveland 
             23 B. Harrison 
             25 McKinley 
             26 T. Roosevelt 
             27 Taft 
             28 Wilson 
             29 Harding 
             30 Coolidge 
             31 Hoover 
             32 F. D. Roosevelt 
             33 Truman 
             34 Eisenhower 
             35 Kennedy 
             36 L. B. Johnson 
             37 Nixon 
             38 Ford 
             39 Carter 
             40 Reagan 
             41 G. H. W. Bush 
             42 Clinton 
             43 G. W. Bush 
             44 Obama 
             45 Trump 
             46 Biden
             
           
          
           
            
           
         
         
          By topic
          
            
            
             Counties 
             Currency 
             Educational institutions 
             Military vessels 
             Postage stamps 
             Presidential libraries 
             Residences 
             Statues
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
             United States national libraries
           
         
         
          
            
            
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Agriculture:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Agricultural Library 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Congress:&nbsp;&nbsp;Library of Congress 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Transportation:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Transportation Library 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Health and Human Services /&nbsp;National Institutes of Health:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Library of Medicine 
             &nbsp;&nbsp;Department of Education:&nbsp;&nbsp;National Library of Education
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
             
              Other related libraries and services
              
             
              Federal Depository Library Program
              
             
              National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)
              
             
              Presidential library system
              
             
              List of U.S. state libraries and archives
             
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            Authority control 
           
         
         
          National libraries
          
            
            
             United States
             
           
         
         
          Other
          
            
            
             National Archives (US)
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Presidential_library&amp;oldid=1054257931"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       National Archives and Records Administration
       Presidential libraries
       Special collections libraries
       Presidency of the United States
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Use mdy dates from June 2017
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NARA identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       Variants expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       Deutsch
       Español
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Italiano
       עברית
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Simple English
       Suomi
       Svenska
       Українська
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 November 2021, at 00:26&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
