
 
  
   
  School library - Wikipedia 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
   School library 
    
    
     From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
     
     
     
     Jump to navigation Jump to search 
    
     
      
      
       Not to be confused with library school.
       
      
       Library within a school
       
      
       
        
         
          
           
          
         
          
           The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with North America and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
          
        
       
       
      
       
         
        
         
          
         School / College library.
        
       
       
      A school library (or a school library media center) is a library within a school where students, staff, and often, parents of a public or private school have access to a variety of resources. The goal of the school library media center is to ensure that all members of the school community have equitable access "to books and reading, to information, and to information technology." A school library media center "uses all types of media... is automated, and utilizes the Internet  for information gathering." School libraries are distinct from public libraries because they serve as "learner-oriented laboratories which support, extend, and individualize the school's curriculum... A school library serves as the center and coordinating agency for all material used in the school." 
      Researchers have demonstrated that school libraries have a positive impact on student achievement through the more than 60 studies that have been conducted in 19 U.S. states and one Canadian province. The major finding of these studies was that students with access to a well-supported school library media program with a qualified school library media specialist, scored higher on reading assessments regardless of their socio-economic statuses. In addition, a study conducted in Ohio revealed that 99.4% of students surveyed believed that their school librarians and school library media programs helped them succeed in school. A report that reported similar conclusions was compiled by Michele Lonsdale in Australia in 2003.  
      
       
       
        Contents
        
        
        1 History of school libraries 
        2 The purpose of the school library 
        3 The school library collection 
        4 Staffing of the school library 
        5 See also 
        6 Notes and references 
        7 External links 
        
       
      History of school libraries 
      Library services to schools have evolved since the late 1800s from public or state library book wagons to informal classroom collections to what we know today. The later part of the 19th century marked the beginning of the modern American library movement with the creation of the American Library Association (ALA) in 1876 by a group of librarians led by Melvil Dewey. At these beginning stages of development, the school libraries were primarily made up of small collections with the school librarian playing primarily a clerical role. 
      Dewey wrote that "a broad conception at the end of the century of the work of the schools is simply this, to teach the children to think accurately, with strength and with speed. If it is in the school that they get their start, then where do they get their education?" 
      1920 marked the first effort by the library and education communities to evaluate school libraries with the publication of the Certain Report, which provided the first yardstick for evaluating school libraries. 
      By the 1950s, 40% of schools indicated the presence of classroom collections. Around 18% reported having centralized libraries. City schools reported 48% and rural schools reported 12%. School libraries experienced another major push following the launch of Sputnik in 1957, which forced the United States to re-evaluate its priorities for math and science education. NDEA was a response to Sputnik and Title III of NDEA provided financial assistance for strengthening science, mathematics, and modern foreign language. As a result, the 1960s were one of the greatest periods of growth and development for school libraries due to an increased flow of money and support from the private sector and public funding for education. Most notable during this time was the Knapp School Libraries Project which established model school library media centers across the country. Hundreds of new school libraries were expanded and renovated during this time. 
      Most recently, school libraries have been defined by two major guidelines documents: Information Power (1988) and Information Power II (1998). 
      In 1999 the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) published the globally important Unesco School library Manifesto , which states: "The school library provides information and ideas that are fundamental to functioning successfully in today’s information and knowledge-based society. The school library equips students with life-long learning skills and develops the imagination, enabling them to live as responsible citizens" (para. 1).  
      The purpose of the school library 
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Inside a school library.
        
       
       
       
       School library media centers in the 21st century can, and should be, hubs for increased student achievement and positive focused school reform--Kathleen D. Smith 
       
      The school library exists to provide a range of learning opportunities for both large and small groups as well as individuals with a focus on intellectual content, information literacy, and the learner. In addition to classroom visits with collaborating teachers, the school library also serves as a learning space for students to do independent work, use computers, access the internet, use equipment and research materials; to host special events such as author visits and book clubs; and for tutoring and testing. 
      School libraries function as a central location for all of the information available, and a school librarian functions as the literary map to the resources and materials found within the library. 
      A school library functions as an opportunity for educators to work with librarians in support of a resource center for the students to be able to safely access the internet for both school work and interacting with each other. In her article, "Tag! You're It!": Playing on the Digital Playground, De las Casas discusses how today's youth is much more comfortable with technology than ever before, and believes that “We need to advocate for regulations and laws that support education of young people rather than simply limiting their access to the Web.” 
      The school library media center program is a collaborative venture in which school library media specialists, teachers, and administrators work together to provide opportunities for the social, cultural, and educational growth of students. Activities that are part of the school library media program can take place in the school library media center, the laboratory classroom, through the school, and via the school library's online resources. 
      In Australia school libraries have played a major role in the success of Reading Challenge programs initiated and funded by various State Governments. 
      The Premier's Reading Challenge in South Australia, launched by Premier Mike Rann (2002 to 2011) has one of the highest participation rates in the world for reading challenges. It has been embraced by more than 95% of public, private and religious schools.  
      The school library collection 
      School libraries are similar to public libraries in that they contain books, films, recorded sound, periodicals, realia, and digital media. These items are not only for the education, enjoyment, and entertainment of all members of the school community, but also to enhance and expand the school's curriculum.  
      Staffing of the school library 
      In many schools, school libraries are staffed by librarians, teacher-librarians, or school library media specialists or media coordinators who hold a specific library science degree. In some jurisdictions, school librarians are required to have specific certification and/or a teaching certificate.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         The school librarian supplies children with educational books (Russia, 1959)
        
       
       
      The school librarian performs four leadership main roles: teacher, instructional partner, information specialist, and program administrator. In the teacher role, the school librarian develops and implements curricula relating to information literacy and inquiry. School librarians may read to children, assist them in selecting books, and assist with schoolwork. Many school librarians also teach technology skills to students, such as keyboarding and Microsoft and Google applications. Some school librarians see classes on a "flexible schedule". A flexible schedule means that rather than having students come to the library for instruction at a fixed time every week, the classroom teacher schedules library time when library skills or materials are needed as part of the classroom learning experience.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         Students, from Robbinsdale Middle School (RMS) (Minnesota 2019) use an OPAC terminal to search for books, ebooks, and databases.
        
       
       
      In the instructional partner role, school librarians collaborate with classroom teachers to create independent learners by fostering students' research, information literacy, technology, and critical thinking skills. 
      As information specialists, school librarians develop a resource base for the school by using the curriculum and student interests to identify and obtain library materials, organize and maintain the library collection in order to promote independent reading and lifelong learning. Materials in the library collection can be located using an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC). Often these catalogs are web-based from which students can gain access both at school and from home. 
      This role also encompasses many activities relating to technology including the integration of resources in a variety of formats: periodical databases; Web sites; digital video segments; podcasts; blog and wiki content; digital images; virtual classrooms, etc. School librarians are often responsible for audio-visual equipment and are sometimes in charge of school computers and computer networks. 
      Many school librarians also perform clerical duties. They handle the circulating and cataloging of materials, facilitate interlibrary loans, shelve materials, perform inventory, etc.  
      
       
         
        
         
          
         School librarian with card files (Minnesota, 1974) Photo for historical perspective. Most school Libraries use computer based electronic catalog for holdings and search functions and NO longer use card catalogs.
        
       
       
      Notable school librarians:  
      
       Laura Bush-Austin Independent School District 
       Graham Gardner-Abingdon School 
       Grant Lyons-Keystone School 
       Laura Amy Schlitz-Park School of Baltimore
       
      See also 
      
       American Association of School Libraries (AASL) 
       School Library Association (UK) 
       Teacher-librarian 
       Virtual school library 
       Learning Resource Centre 
       Hannah Logasa
       
      Notes and references 
      
       
       
         
         ^ The goals of the school library program should support the mission and continuous improvement plan of the school district.Standards for the 21st Century Learner  
         ^ Morris, B. (2013). Administering the school library media center. Westport, CT: Libraries Unlimited. (p.32).  
         ^ Morris, 2013, p.32  
         ^ Todd, R., Kuhlthau, C., &amp; OELMA. (2014). Student Learning through Ohio School Libraries&nbsp;: The Ohio Research Study. Available online at: "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2004-08-29. Retrieved 2008-12-06.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ Lonsdale, M. (2003). Impact of school libraries on student achievement: A review of the research. Camberwell, Victoria, Australia: Australian Council for Educational Research. Available online at http://www.asla.org.au/site/DefaultSite/filesystem/documents/research.pdf  
         ^ Wiegand, Wayne A. American Public School Librarianship: A History. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2021  
         ^ http://dorrstreet.org/502-spring-2018/NCES%202005%20fifty%20years%20of%20supporting%20311.pdf  
         ^ Dewey, M. (1920). What a library should be and what it can do. In A. E. Bostwick (Ed.). The library and society: Classics of American librarianship (pp. 75-78). New York: H.W. Wilson.  
         ^ Charles C. Certain Committee. (1986). Standard library organization and equipment for secondary schools of different sizes. In Melvil M. Bowie (Comp.), Historic Documents of school libraries (pp.34-51). Littleton, CO: Hi Willow Research and Publishing. (Original work published 1920, Chicago: American Library Association)  
         ^ http://dorrstreet.org/502-spring-2018/NCES%202005%20fifty%20years%20of%20supporting%20311.pdf  
         ^ Michie, Joan S., et al. "Fifty Years of Supporting Children's Learning: A History of Public School Libraries and Federal Legislation from 1953 to 2000. NCES 2005-311." (March 1, 2005): ERIC, EBSCOhost (accessed March 1, 2018).  
         ^ 
           Boardman, Edna (September–October 1994). "The Knapp School Libraries Project: The Best $1,130,000 Ever Spent on School Libraries". Book Report. 13 (2): 17–19. ISSN&nbsp;0731-4388. ERIC # EJ489785.  
         ^ American Association of School Librarians &amp; Association for Educational Communications and Technology. (1988). Information power: Guidelines for school library media programs. Chicago: American Library Association.  
         ^ American Association of School Librarians &amp; Association for Educational Communications and Technology. (1998). Information power: Building partnerships for learning. Chicago: American Library Association.  
         ^ Smith, K. (2002). "Building Student Learning Through School Libraries." Statement delivered at the White House Conference on School Libraries, available from: 
           "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2008-09-16. Retrieved 2008-12-06.}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link)  
         ^ Morris, 2004  
         ^ Felmley, D. (2010). How far should courses in normal schools and teachers’ colleges seek to acquaint all teachers with the ways of organizing and using school libraries?. Journal of Proceedings and Addresses of the Forty-Sixth Annual Meeting Held at Cleveland, Ohio, 1087-1095. doi:10.1037/e597422010-207  
         ^ De las Casas, D. (2010). “Tag! you're it!”: playing on the digital playground. Knowledge Quest, 39(1), 80-82.  
         ^ Morris, 2004  
         ^ Center for National Policy, Washington DC, What States Can Do, May 2, 2012  
         ^ Morris, 2004; Thomas, M. J. &amp; Perritt, P.H. (2003, December 1). A Higher standard: Many states have recently revised their certification requirements for school librarians. School Library Journal. Available online at http://www.schoollibraryjournal.com/article/CA339562.html?industryid=47056  
        
       
       
      External links 
       
       
         
          
         Wikimedia Commons has media related to School libraries.
         
       
       
      
       Unesco School Library Manifesto 
       American Association of School Librarians 
       School Library Journal 
       School Library Media Activities Monthly 
       Resources for School Libraries 
       Virtual Learning Resources Center 
       The Hub: Campaign for Quality School Libraries 
       Australian School Library Association 
       Directory of portuguese online school libraries catalogs 
       Suomen koulukirjastoyhdistys 
       Siu-Runyan, Yvonne. "Public and School Libraries in Decline: When We Need Them." (Archive). National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE).
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          
           
            
             v
             t
             e
            
           
           
            Libraries and library science
           
         
         
          Types of library
          
            
            
             Academic 
             Archive 
             Branch 
             Children's 
             Christian 
             Consortium 
             Digital 
              
               Shadow
               
             Hybrid 
             Law 
             Lending 
             Map 
             Medicine 
             Mobile 
             Music 
             National 
             Presidential 
             Prison 
             Private 
             Public 
              
               Carnegie
               
             Research 
             School 
              
               Learning Resource Centre 
               Virtual
               
             Special collections 
             Special library 
             Subscription 
             Traveling
             
           
         
         
          Types of librarian
          
            
            
             Distance education 
             E-science 
             Law 
             Music 
              
               Ensemble
               
             Periodicals/serials 
             School 
             Information professional 
             Informationist 
             Library and information scientist
             
           
         
         
          Library science
          
            
            
             Five laws 
             Library and information science 
             Education for librarianship 
             Acquisitions 
             Archival science 
             Assessment 
             Cataloging 
              
               Catalog 
               OPAC
               
             Circulation 
             Classification 
             Collection development 
             Collective collection 
             Conservation 
             Discovery system 
             Electronic resource management 
             Information literacy 
             Inventory 
             Legal deposit 
             Library history 
             Library instruction 
             Library management 
             Library publishing 
             Preservation 
             Readers' advisory 
             Reference 
              
               Virtual 
               Roving
               
             Technical services 
             Weeding
             
           
         
         
          History
          
            
            
             History of libraries 
             History of library science
             
           
         
         
          Lists
          
            
            
             Libraries 
              
               by country 
               by size 
               ancient 
               destroyed 
               medical 
               national
               
             Library associations 
             Library schools 
             Librarians 
              
               women 
               fictional
               
             Archivists 
              
               women
              
             
           
         
         
          
            
            
              Category:Libraries 
              Category:Library science 
              Commons 
              Glossary 
              Outline 
              WikiProject
             
           
         
        
       
       
      
       
      
      
       
        
         
          Authority control: National libraries 
          
            
            
             Spain 
             France (data) 
             Germany 
             United States 
             Japan
             
           
         
        
       
          
     
     
      
      
     
      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=School_library&amp;oldid=1070856975"
     
     
    
     
      Categories: 
      
       Academic libraries
       School terminology
       Libraries by type
       Types of library
       Educational facilities
      
     
     
      Hidden categories: 
      
       CS1 maint: archived copy as title
       Articles with short description
       Short description matches Wikidata
       Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2010
       North America-centric
       Commons category link is on Wikidata
       Articles with BNE identifiers
       Articles with BNF identifiers
       Articles with GND identifiers
       Articles with LCCN identifiers
       Articles with NDL identifiers
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Navigation menu 
    
     
      Personal tools  
      
      
       Not logged in
       Talk
       Contributions
       Create account
       Log in
       
      
     
     
      
       Namespaces  
       
       
        Article
        Talk
        
       
      
      
       
       English expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
     
     
      
       Views  
       
       
        Read
        Edit
        View history
        
       
      
      
       
       More expanded collapsed  
       
        
       
      
      
       
        Search  
        
         
          
          
          
          
         
        
       
      
     
    
    
      
     
     
      Navigation  
      
      
       Main page
       Contents
       Current events
       Random article
       About Wikipedia
       Contact us
       Donate
       
      
     
     
      Contribute  
      
      
       Help
       Learn to edit
       Community portal
       Recent changes
       Upload file
       
      
     
     
      Tools  
      
      
       What links here
       Related changes
       Upload file
       Special pages
       Permanent link
       Page information
       Cite this page
       Wikidata item
       
      
     
     
      Print/export  
      
      
       Download as PDF
       Printable version
       
      
     
     
      In other projects  
      
      
       Wikimedia Commons
       
      
     
     
      Languages  
      
      
       العربية
       Català
       Dansk
       Deutsch
       Eesti
       Ελληνικά
       Español
       Euskara
       فارسی
       Français
       한국어
       Hrvatski
       Bahasa Indonesia
       Íslenska
       עברית
       Magyar
       Bahasa Melayu
       Nederlands
       日本語
       Norsk bokmål
       Norsk nynorsk
       ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
       Polski
       Português
       Русский
       Српски / srpski
       Suomi
       Svenska
       ไทย
       Українська
       粵語
       中文
       
      
       Edit links
       
      
     
    
   
   
    
     This page was last edited on 9 February 2022, at 16:48&nbsp;(UTC). 
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. 
    
    
    Privacy policy 
    About Wikipedia 
    Disclaimers 
    Contact Wikipedia 
    Mobile view 
    Developers 
    Statistics 
    Cookie statement 
    
    
     
     
    
   
   
   
    
 
